date: 2024-06-02
title: Fragments to Fullness
theme: Pentecost
preacher: Rev. Jeremy Smith
sermon_title: The (Church) Game of Life
scripture:
  - Ecclesiastes 9:7-12
  - Philippians 2:1-4,12-16
---
# Fragments to Fullness
## Gathering
[04:20]
### Prelude: "Where Charity and Love Prevail" — Elisabeth Ellis
[Music]
### Call to Worship
**Pastor Jeremy:** Gathered friends, we are here to proclaim a vision.
**Congregation:** A vision of a world formed by God and transformed by Jesus' love.
**Pastor Jeremy:** We are disciples who are called to embody lives of grace.
**Congregation:** Sharing the good news of the gospel in our words and our actions.
**Pastor Jeremy:** May the Holy Spirit open our hearts and open our affections.
**Congregation:** That we may live into God's vision for our lives, our communities, and our world.
**Pastor Jeremy:** Thanks be to God!
**Congregation:** Amen.
### Opening Hymn: "Shine, Jesus, Shine" — TFWS #2173
**Congregation:**
Shine, Jesus, shine. Fill this land with the Father's glory.
Blaze, Spirit, blaze. Set our hearts on fire.
Flow, river, flow. Let the nations know the Father's love and grace.
Send forth your word, Lord, and in love give light.

Lord, the light of your love's shining in the midst of the darkness.
Shine, Jesus, shine.
Jesus, light of the world, shine upon us.
Set us free by the truth you now bring us.
Shine on me. Shine on me.

Shine, Jesus, shine. Fill this land with the Father's glory.
Blaze, Spirit, blaze. Set our hearts on fire.
Flow, river, flow. Let the nations know the Father's love and grace.
Send forth your word, Lord, and in love give light.

Lord, I come to your awesome presence.
From the shadows into your radiance.
By your blood I may enter your brightness.
Search me, try me, consume all my darkness.
Shine on me. Shine on me.

Shine, Jesus, shine. Fill this land with the Father's glory.
Blaze, Spirit, blaze. Set our hearts on fire.
Flow, river, flow. Let the nations know the Father's love and grace.
Send forth your word, Lord, and in love give light.
### Passing of the Peace
**Pastor Jeremy:** Please remain standing and we will now share and greet with another, uh greet one another with signs of peace. If you prefer a touchless greeting, you can simply place your hand over your heart.

Hear the words of Jesus, "Peace I leave with you, my peace I give to you." The peace of Christ is ours through the Holy Spirit who dwells within us. The peace of Christ be with you.
**Congregation:** And also with you.
[Congregational interaction, side conversations]
**Pastor Jeremy:** Well, good morning. Welcome to worship today at First Church. I'm Pastor Jeremy. It's so good to be in worship with you today.

We welcome those who are new to our community. This is a place to explore your spirituality and to bring your questions. We don't have all the answers but together we ask the hard questions and confront the troubles and injustices we see in the world. With God's help, we use our voices and our energy to bring about change.

I hope you take a look in your bulletin. There's two things in there. Uh first is a communication card. It lets us know you're here. Um if this is your first couple of Sundays, uh I'd be great to fill out some information there and also check the box if you'd like to get uh E-news or to send uh prayer request to us. There's also an envelope for Native American Ministry Sunday, that we'll hear a little bit more about uh later in the worship service.

Um today is our end of Ministry Year celebration. Uh our our worship services very full, uh got lots of things going on, but I wanted to take a brief moment just to uh give a a word of welcome to uh uh Jeff Allen, uh Reverend Jeff Allen, pastor from West Ohio visiting with us today. Welcome Jeff and his family.
[Applause]
**Pastor Jeremy:** Don't tell anybody that he's here. All right, he's on vacation. All right. Um and then welcome to Reverend Derek Nakano, um our District Superintendent.
[Applause]
**Pastor Jeremy:** Uh so, um and uh today we have lots of uh celebration of our graduates, uh celebration of uh volunteers, and then a lunch after church uh downstairs where we look back on all that we have done over the past year, and we uh prepare ourselves for going forward. But one of the major things is we have a new addition to our worship service uh that I'll invite uh Peter Jabin as the writing team uh to guide us through it uh before we do the lighting of the community candle, which a note for parents, we're going to have youth stay in the worship service until uh the gradu- until the graduates are honored, so they can see where they're going. Sound good? Sound good. Great.
**Peter Jabin:** Thanks, Jeremy. Uh so just a couple of words of introduction of a new element to our worship service, the land acknowledgement. We've had a drafting team who has been working on two versions, a short form, which I'll we're starting in worship today and a longer form, which still needs a little more work. It's not quite done, it'll get done this summer hopefully. Uh that team has been Barbara and Jerry and Isaac and Aaron Elaine, and Claire has made some really significant contributions as our church archivist. Uh so we've been working for a while at this. Uh we've been taking our time because it is not just about words, it's about the process, and our community in particular, First Church, uh Reverend uh David Blaine and his party uh probably represent the first sustained contact with white settler culture for the first peoples of this area. So there's a particular gravity to what we come up with. So we've really been taking our time. Uh long form will come later, that'll be on the website. We'll share it in service when it's done. For now, I just want to acknowledge one idea in that, that the words alone are not sufficient. Words alone are kind of meaningless and self-serving unless they are accompanied by meaningful action and by right relationship with the land itself, it's a land acknowledgement, right relationship with the land, the earth and others, particularly the first peoples of this place. More later. But for now.

We acknowledge that we stand on the traditional homelands of the Duwamish, the first people of Seattle. We honor and respect members of the Duwamish tribe, past and present, as well as the land and waters we share. May we live consciously and respectfully with one another, mindful of the sacredness of all God's creation.
**Peter Jabin:** And now we will light the community candle. We want the kids, any children who want to come up and help with this. Young at heart are also welcome to join.
[Congregational noise as children approach the front]
**Peter Jabin:** Whoever you are, wherever you find yourself today, across the spectrum of human existence, sexuality, identity, ability, or privilege, in a world full of questions, doubts, and a climate in crisis, may this community be a place of companionship and healing for you. There is nothing that can separate us from God's all-embracing love. Christ invites you, Christ invites us, to find him in worship and celebration today.
[Music]
### Special Music: "Dakota Hymn" — Heather Sorenson, Sanctuary Choir; Elisabeth Ellis
[Music]
## Responding
[21:25]
**Pastor Jeremy:** Come to a time of two celebrations in the life of our community. The first is a celebration of our graduates. Um I'll invite uh Bruce Hall uh to come up and join me along with Alex. Uh we have a tradition of celebrating our graduates here um at First Church. We actually have four graduates uh from high school this uh this year. Um all of them, their name starts with the letter A. It's very entertaining. Must be, that must be their grades too. Was that, was those are your grades too? Sure. All right, good. Um and uh several of them um are not able to be with us uh for today. I'll share a little bit about them. Um uh Ashley Young is graduating um along with uh Ava Armbruster. Ava is graduating from Fusion Academy and is planning on attending the Seattle University Honors program uh in the fall. Uh Ava Gale, um is graduating from Aim Snohomish High School, and will stay in the area taking a gap year and volunteer while considering her next steps. She was grateful to First Church for the support and encouragement and experiences she has had over the years here at First Church. And I'll invite Alex to come up and share with us uh where you're graduating from and what you're doing next.
**Alex:** Um hi, I'm Alex. You guys probably know me because I work in the nursery. I'm graduating from Nathan Hale High School. It's in Lake City and um I'm going to North Seattle Community College with the Seattle Promise scholarship and I'll be studying education with a special focus with um preschool education, so I'll be working with kids. Amen. All right. All right.
[Applause]
**Pastor Jeremy:** And now a few words from Bruce.
**Bruce Hall:** Um all right, well Alex and all of our graduating seniors, congratulations on your graduation. As you embark on the next phase of your life's journey, if you pursue higher education at uh any college or trade school, First Church has scholarship funds available to support your next level of learning. Um behalf of the church and scholarship committee, we are pleased to offer a $400 scholarship payment toward your tuition. We hope you will always remember the love and lessons of your childhood and youth, and we at First Church are here as an expression of God's love to continue to support you and cheer you on in your next endeavors. Live simply, love generously, care deeply, speak kindly, and leave the rest to God. And we have a little certificate um ah to uh recognize your accomplishment. All right. Congratulations.
[Applause]
**Bruce Hall:** Oh, thanks.
[Applause]
**Pastor Jeremy:** For all of our graduates, I invite you to join in the liturgy as projected. God of truth and knowledge by your wisdom, we are taught the way and the truth. Bless our graduates as they now finish this course of study.
**Congregation:** We thank you for those who taught and worked beside them, and all who supported them along the way.
**Pastor Jeremy:** Walk with the graduates as they leave and move forward in life, take away their anxiety and confusion of purpose.
**Congregation:** Strengthen their many talents and skills, instill in them a confidence in the future you plan, where energies may be gathered up and used for the good of all people.
**Pastor Jeremy:** For the graduates, this truly is a day of new beginnings, a time to remember and move on, a time to believe what love is bringing.
**Congregation:** May they always know that Christ is alive and goes before us to show and share what love can do. This is a day of new beginnings. Our God is making all things new.
**Pastor Jeremy:** Amen. Thank you, Alex.
**Pastor Jeremy:** Um our second recognition today is for um celebration of volunteers who are retiring this year after um uh decades or centuries of service. I'm not sure what the term is, but um it certainly is a a time of a celebration. Um I will invite up uh Jonathan Craig um to share a little bit about two of the people we are celebrating today.
**Jonathan Craig:** For over 20 years, First Church has been blessed by having two master teachers in our Children's Ministries. In education, a master teacher is many things to include being passionate about students, student learning, and the ability to successfully share their knowledge with their students. Deborah and Diane have demonstrated those qualities time and time again. Each of these ladies have consistently given of themselves every Sunday to the children of First Church. Regardless of how small or large Sunday School attendance may have been, they always figured out a way to meet the needs of their children. Most importantly, Diana and Debra have been committed to deepening the knowledge and love for God in our children. For this, and on behalf of all the children whose lives you've greatly impacted in the church, we thank you.
**Pastor Jeremy:** I'll invite up uh Diane Whitshaw and Debra Looker to receive their certificates. Will you celebrate them with me?
[Applause]
**Debra Loacker:** Well, thank you very much. Um I'm gonna speak for Diane 'cause she doesn't want to. Um I would, I am only the assistant. She's really the master teacher and it's been my pleasure um to get to know the kids from First Church all these years and um but it's time for someone else to step up after how, 27 years, something like that. So um anyway, thank you and this was not necessary, but it is appreciated. Thank you. Amen. All right.
[Applause]
**Pastor Jeremy:** And now I will invite up uh Sue Porter to share about our next uh person being recognized.
**Sue Porter:** Good morning. So there's much to say about Jim Schoen and his work in the Urban Outreach Shared Breakfast committee for the past five years. I knew of Jim in 2019, but only in a general way. Then came the faithful phone call one Sunday morning in October, November, which was it? Anyway, that changed that. I remember it perfectly. Reverend Jeremy's sermon that Sunday was about taking a leap of faith and becoming involved in church activities. I was home after service, not 10 minutes, in a comfortable chair, when the phone rang. It was Jim. Hmm, interesting. He wanted someone to be co-chair with him for Urban Outreach. Jackie Bellinger and Jeff Nospang, who had taken over from Jean Ferguson after she passed, were stepping down. Saying no to Jim was going to be like saying no to him and Reverend Jeremy. Nice timing, Jim. Well, Jim is a nice person, and I knew him as capable. So I said I would. Little did either of us know what was to come four months later when COVID caused the country, First Church, and Shared Breakfast to shut down. The challenges the challenges of Shared Breakfast as it was before COVID with serving an average of 320 people in a sit down style restaurant style. Then transitioning to serving guests during COVID with just the carryout meals to the post-COVID hybrid arrangement showed me much showed me how much more than nice and capable Jim is. For example, when COVID restrictions used to allow to go meals, it wasn't just that we had to move from to carryout bags. Me, I'm thinking, you get a bag, you get some containers, cook some food, and it's to go. Not Jim. He had much more things in mind. What meals would work, how to keep volunteers safe and healthy. The volunteer staffing would be different, and he thought to contact the King County Health Department for guidance. When it came apparent that we needed security guards, he contacted a friend at Children's Hospital. He learned about the meal coalition program, where other homeless hungry providers talk about um their ideas and their projects. Um he started attending their monthly meetings. It was not only good for ideas, but it was also good for free supplies. Very helpful to the Shared Breakfast budget. Well, speaking of budget. He wrote grants which have greatly supplemented our budget, so Shared Breakfast can look beyond the end of this year to keep Shared Breakfast operating. I really, I could go on. Um, Jim is an organizer, manager, leader. He connects. People with people and with organizations. He's a master, a master of detail. He's patient and kind. But most of all, he's humble. When talking about something accomplished, he always uses we, when honestly, it was Jim. Come on. Jim, outreach um Urban Outreach Shared Breakfast, can't thank you enough for your time and service.
[Applause]
**Pastor Jeremy:** A certificate of recognition for James Schoen for his years of service to Shared Breakfast and Urban Outreach, and his heart for those experiencing hunger and houselessness. Thank you, Jim.
**Jim Schoen:** Well, this is quite a surprise. Thank you, Sue, um wherever you went, and Reverend Jeremy for this. Um it has been a joy uh working on this um here at First Church for the last number of years. But the real joy as Sue mentioned is with all of you. You all in your own ways make this such a special place, whether it's Shared Breakfast or teaching of the kids, the singing, um the Lunch and Learns, could go on and on with all the things that bring Michiko and my wife, my wife and our daughter Mariko here uh to be with all of you in worship and celebration of our Lord Jesus Christ. So thank you for all the support that you've given to me all of these years. It's a joy to be in service with you. Thank you.
[Applause]
### Prayers of the People
[43:37]
**Peter Jabin:** As we move into a time of prayer, just uh a prayer of gratitude for such leadership, for people who embody discipleship and the love of Christ in the world. It's why I'm here. And I'm very grateful. As we move into a time of prayer, I invite you to quiet your mind and open your heart to the spirit that enfolds us in this place. Be still and become aware of your breath, the one breath that we share, the breath that connects us all to each other, which is the very breath of God. Let yourself be breathed and receive these prayers from the Ajibwe and Chinook peoples. Grandfather, look at our brokenness. We know that in all creation only the human family has strayed from the sacred way. We know that we are the ones who are divided, and we are the ones who must come back together to walk in the sacred way. Grandfather, sacred one, teach us love, compassion, and honor, that we may heal the earth and heal each other. We call upon the earth, our planet home, with its beautiful depths and soaring heights, its vitality and abundance of life, and together we ask that it teach us and show us the way. We call upon the mountains, the Cascades and the Olympics, the high green valleys and the meadows filled with wild flowers, the snows that never melt, the summits of intense silence and we ask that they teach us and show us the way. We call upon the waters that rim the earth, horizon to horizon, that flow in our rivers and streams, that fall upon our gardens and fields, and we ask that they show us and teach us the way. We call upon the land which grows our food, the nurturing soil, the fertile fields, the abundant gardens and orchards, and we ask that they teach us and show us the way. We call upon the forest, the great trees reaching strongly to the sky, with earth in their roots and the heavens in their branches, the fir and the pine and the cedar, and we ask that they teach us and show us the way. We call upon the creatures of the fields and forests and the seas, our brothers and sisters, the wolves and deer, the eagles and dove, the great whales and the dolphins, the beautiful orca and the salmon, who share our northwest home. We ask them to teach us and show us the way. We call upon all those who have lived on this earth, our ancestors and our friends, who dreamed the best future, who dreamed the best for future generations, and upon whose lives our lives are built. With thanksgiving, we call upon them to teach us and show us the way. And finally, we call upon all that we hold most sacred, the presence and power of the great spirit of love and truth, which flows through all the universe, to be with us, to teach us, and show us the way. Gracious Creator, open to us the wisdom of the first peoples. Even the first peoples to whom we trace our lineages. Grant us the courage to see clearly the nature and consequences of our actions, both past and present. Release us from our self-centered and our self-created and self-centered prisons of denial and apathy, of despair and shame. Restore us to right relationship with you, with each other and with all your children. We pray in the name of our brother Jesus, in the midst of the Christ spirit he bore. Amen.
[Music]
### Prayer Response: "Let There Be Peace On Earth" — UMH #431
**Congregation:**
Lead with peace on earth. Let it begin with me.
Let there be peace on earth. The peace that was meant to be.
With God our creator, children all are we.
Let us walk with each other in perfect harmony.
Let peace begin with me. Let this be the moment now.
With every step I take. Let this be my solemn vow.
To take each moment and live each moment in peace eternally.
Let there be peace on earth. Let it begin with me.
## Proclaiming the Word
[41:00]
### Introducing the Scripture
**Pastor Jeremy:** A few words of introduction before the reading of scripture today. We have two readings from the Old Testament and the New Testament, from the Hebrew Bible and the Christian scriptures. And uh the first reading is from the book of Ecclesiastes. It's often, I often call it the Debbie Downer of scripture. The uh Ecclesiastes seems to have such weighty content to it. And so today we're reading from a translation we don't usually read from. It's a paraphrase called the Message. And it brings a different uh spirit to it. I want you to hear um hear that in the reading. Um and then the second reading is from Paul's letter to the Philippians, to the Philippian church. And remember these are letters written to specific situations going on um in the in the life of that church. But both of these verses, both of these scriptures that we're reading are uh talking a little bit about the principle of divine justice and equality, where our initial standings, wherever we are, still don't determine the outcomes. Where where we're standing now is not the place where we will always be, for better or for worse. Um I'm so thankful to Janet and Bruce for guiding us through the scriptures today.
### Old Testament Reading: Ecclesiastes 9:7-12 (The Message)
**Janet Crawley:** I offer the Old Testament reading from Ecclesiastes chapter 9, verses 7 through 12.

Seize life! Eat bread with gusto, drink wine with a robust heart. Oh yes, God takes pleasure in your pleasure! Dress festively every morning. Don't skimp on colors and scarves, relish life with the spouse you love. Each and every day of your precarious life. Each day is God's gift. It's all you get in exchange for the hard work of staying alive. Make the most of each one! Whatever turns up, grab it and do it, and heartily. This is your last and only chance at it, for there's neither work to do, nor thoughts to think in the company of the dead, where you're most certainly headed.

I took another walk around the neighborhood, and realized that on the earth as it is, the race is not always to the swift, nor the battle to the strong, nor satisfaction to the wise, nor riches to the smart, nor grace to the learned, sooner or later bad luck hits us all. No one can predict misfortune. Like fish caught in a cruel net, or birds in a trap, so men and women are caught by accidents, evil and sudden.
### New Testament Reading: Philippians 2:1-4,12-16 (NRSVue)
**Bruce Hall:** The New Testament reading is from Philippians chapter 2.

If then, there is any comfort in Christ, any consolation from love, any partnership in the Spirit, any tender affection and sympathy, make my joy complete. Be of the same mind, having the same love, being in full accord and of one mind. Do nothing from selfish ambition or empty conceit, but in humility regard others as better than yourselves. Let each of you, look not to your own interests, but to the interests of others. Therefore, my beloved, just as you have always obeyed me, not only in my presence, but much more now in my absence, work on your own salvation with fear and trembling. For it is God who is at work in you, enabling you both to will and to work for his good pleasure. Do all good things without murmuring and arguing, so that you may be blameless and innocent children of God, without blemish in the midst of a crooked and perverse generation, in which you shine like stars in the world, holding forth the word of life. So that I can boast on the day of Christ, that I did not run in vain or labor in vain. This is the word of life.
**Congregation:** Thanks be to God.
### Sermon: The (Church) Game of Life
**Preacher:** Rev. Jeremy Smith
**Pastor Jeremy:** Will you pray with me? Holy God, may the words of my mouth and the meditation of all of our hearts, be acceptable not to each other, but to you, our rock and our Redeemer. Amen.

One of the things I know about First Church is we are a creative congregation that loves the arts. We hold choral and organ music dear. We sponsor public art walks around Seattle Center. We appreciate the artistry of the banners, um whether they are woven or printed. Um and uh liturgical dance in worship, poetry and faith in classrooms. Our members support the opera, ballet, concerts, um and we have plenty of movie buffs and Swifties in the congregation. There's something emotional that happens when you're in the presence of art that speaks to you. But I would argue there's another underappreciated art form that nonetheless touches many, if not all of the lives in the room. It's an art form that only takes shape when you participate in it. I would say this morning, that, and the bulletin title should tell you something, that games are an art form. And our emotions are influenced by them in the same way that art captivates us from the walls. We may love or hate games, but participating in them causes us to change the same way that art does. Games, indeed, are all around us. Board games have been on the rise in recent years, uh as we have more European uh style games that have a different uh texture to them, replacing Monopoly, Guess Who, and other staples of our uh gaming cabinets. Um I just read this past weekend how Dave and Buster's is adding gambling components to their family-friendly arcade halls. So now you can place bets on Skee-Ball, I guess. Um and despite on-demand streaming service with everything you could imagine, we still pay a premium for live sports.

But sometimes we underappreciate what games mean, and what I'm hoping to reflect on today is that rethinking games as art that people participate in helps us rethink the church as well, especially as we bookend not only a year but a season, um on and prepare for something new. First, we think games and sometimes the church are all about winning. T. Gwynne, in his 2020 book that influenced my thinking earlier, is called Games, Agency as Art. He tells a story of a father who is being uh who is playing his son, his 10-year-old son in Monopoly, and he's being beaten handily. He has very few properties. Um he was sent directly to jail, uh 34 times, I think. Uh and and his son has multiple, calm down, calm down. And and his son has multiple hotels, rivals Warren Buffett in Monopoly money. But the father notices that each time he's about to go bankrupt, his his son distracts him and says, you know, oh, look at that, and then slips him the rent money. In the Monopoly money. Uh keeping him in the game. The son knows he will win, but he keeps his father in the game because it brings more joy than winning the game.

So why do we play games if not to win? In some game, some games to lose is to win. Uh if you've ever played the game telephone, uh you know, the goal is not to get the perfect rendition from one person all the way down the line. Um it's to laugh at how ridiculous the final is. If you've ever played Twister, you know the goal isn't to get every body part perfect, it's for everyone to fall over in an entangled heap. No one cares who wins at Cards Against Humanity. So long as their pastor has to read the raunchiest word combinations possible, out loud, his first board game night with the young adults at First. Do not think I have not forgotten. In some games, to lose is to win, and failure is okay. When I play a board game with my family, uh I don't mind losing. In fact, I prefer losing so I can model for them what that it's okay to lose, and we don't have to have an emotional response to it. And so that when I beat the pants off of them at Mario Kart. You know, I'm modeled for them something a little bit better.

But here's the point. Too many times we think that uh games' sole purpose is to win, and we think the church's sole purpose is to win. To win by evangelism successes, or adding people to the pew, or money to the plate. And those are important. But I think we win by losing more of the time. By pouring ourselves out week after week in Shared Breakfast without a promise that breakfast will be transformative. By investing time and energy in our young people, we just named several of them, who then move wherever the winds take them, trusting they'll be engaged somewhere else. We lose more than we win in the church. And we are then called each week to build up that resilient joy and just showing up anyway. That goes right into the second point. Second, we think games and church are about winning, when really they're about who we are um, who we are alongside when we play.

Jonathan Lou is the uh senior editor of geekdad.com. Yes, I'm a subscriber, if you can imagine that. Um and a former church member of mine in Portland, Oregon. He has a fascinating way of categorizing board games. This was informed by Top Dog, the science of winning and losing, a book by Bronson Merriman. Um and he he calls them the Matthew effect and the Mark effect. Do you have that slide there, Laura? Great. Um so the Matthew effect is when early leaders get further ahead. It's called the runaway leader problem. One player has gotten better resources, whether through luck or strategy, and that player is able to steamroll everyone else. Have you how many of you have played a game like this, where you were just completely steamrolled by someone else, or you were the steamroller? All right. I see your hand, Chelsea. I'm going to get to you. Don't worry. Um it it it's uh it's realistic because this happens in real life. And he calls it the Matthew effect from the scripture you see, "For to everyone who has, more will be given. But from the one who has not, even what he has will be taken away." This is a very bad proof text, but it's not mine. Um so the Matthew effect is what happens um in uh Monopoly when you get the first Monopoly through luck of the roll. Or um uh you know, everyone, you get so many advantages, and then everyone else has to either pool their resources or take advantage of any more bad luck by the leader to win. Those games are harder to enjoy when you are clearly on the outs. My spouse, Chelsea, hates what game? Settlers of Catan. That's right. Because she played a few times, got locked into a corner, couldn't advance, and just had to sit there while all the rest of us were building things. Uh that's that doesn't make for a fun game experience. But luckily, Jonathan says there's a different way to think about games. And this is the Mark effect. Um it it's what we call the catch-up mechanic, or rubber-banding in racing games. It's from a quote from the Gospel of Mark. "The first will be last, and the last will be first." All right. Again, bad proof text, but you get the idea. The basic idea is you keep everybody in the game. Everyone still has a chance to win. And so the player in last place doesn't feel like they have to sit through an hour of watching someone else win. When you get closer to winning, you get a significant handicap. You know, like everyone attacking you in Sorry, you know? And saying sorry, I would hope. Um or if you're playing the new Legend of Zelda video game, uh just as you get better weapons, you start to get the silver level of of enemies. So I know, I know these things. Don't worry. Uh the games are more enjoyable because you feel like you have a chance. There's a dramatic tension in this type of game. There's a sense of camaraderie with other players because anyone can win. I I think we play games to achieve something. Yes, but we also play to strive towards something with other people. Look around you. Look at the person to your left, person to your right, or in front of you, or side of you, wherever they are. These are the people you are striving with. As Methodists, we have a long history of striving together, being yoked to one another, of crowdsourcing our polity, our practices, our accountability. Um it helps to be reminded that discipleship is not a a winning process where you're trying to win, um so and you can't do that and so you don't play at all. Uh no, um you you participate anyway. Um one of the young adults, um told me that he took up golf and found it was an equalizing experience that four people of varied um varied ability. I think it's called a handicap. Um can can all wander together, I don't know anything about golf. Uh but they can they can go together even if they have a wide disparity of skills. Um uh they can all travel together. And that just that sounds like a rating party to me. Um but it's it's all right. Discipleship, the point is, discipleship is about bringing everyone along with you. So you grow together in love for your neighbor, for God, and for all of creation. In the scripture from Ecclesiastes, we are reminded that the win does not always go to the fast, to the wise, or to the crafty. Life is difficult and unpredictable, and it's better to go at it with each other than alone. Our spirituality is difficult and unpredictable at times. And it's better to go in community than alone.

In conclusion, we can learn things from games. Uh we can learn in chess we learn strategy. In Go, we learn meta-strategy. In sports we learn teamwork. And even Jamey Tart from Ted Lasso can learn unselfish playing. We can learn things from games. We can um uh but the goal of the game is not to learn something, it's to be transformed in the process. It's to feel that sense of play so that you can achieve the same thing when the goal game is over in real life as you to to behave the same way. And here's the secret. Every worship service is the same way. When we step back from ourselves to see how scripture and song, and each other live out the gospel in this container of worship. When we model our faith after Jesus Christ. See how he walked through all the different uh things in his life. Um and so that when we leave this room, we are transformed, and we can live out that lesson in our bodies in the world. This is a place of transformation you can't get anywhere else. My hope is that you play it out, that you let yourselves be transformed in the experience of play and games, and the experience of imagination in worship that transforms you as well. You've already shown the fruits. We're about to celebrate in the end of Ministry Year celebration. The fruits of everything you do together. But I hope you continue that work in yourself. As Philippians says, so you can shine like stars in the world, holding forth the word of life, so that you did not run in vain or labor in vain. And my hope is that you continue to play it out. Glory be to God. Amen.
## Responding
[58:27]
**Pastor Jeremy:** Uh before the offering, I'm going to invite uh John Locker to come up and give us a very brief update on um one of our climate justice uh goals, um and one that he shepherded for quite a while. Thank you, John. Here is fine.
**John Loacker:** Good morning. I just wanted to share with you uh uh a recent transfer of some of our church property or interest here. And it's probably something most of you don't know anything about. Um going back about three years ago, at a trusty meeting, Melinda, our great operations manager held up a uh some piece of paper and said that the church owns a coal mine back in Illinois, and I don't know what to do with this. So I raised my hand and said, I'll look into it. And I think all the other trustees were looking around, really? Especially with the strong permeating messages provided by our climate justice team. So this started a journey. It it tests again to volunteering for the church because I learned a lot. I met a lot of great people. I had to find out where this was. I had to find out who the surface land owner was for this, and I had to find the value. Uh I checked with mineral rights brokers just to see if it was worth anything and the message I got was it it wasn't a very active coal mining area at this point in time. Uh I connected with the uh surface land owner who said he would pay something for it, which told me something. Uh but I'd also contacted a number of agencies like Department of Agriculture, DNR, conservation groups and so forth. And one conservation group stood out called Prairie Rivers Network. And they connected me with an attorney um named Eric Fvel. And uh uh without his help, this still wouldn't be resolved because it required legal help. And so uh Mr. Fvel suggested that I go back to the surface land owner and say, uh, you know, would you accept this with a conservation restriction on this? And then I got this big blowback that said, you folks are moving too fast on this issue. Uh it's not worth our time. And so then he constructed for us, uh I'm sure the equivalent in attorney's fees is thousands of dollars, a conservation uh rights deed. And so it transfers our right in this coal mine interest to uh the Prairie Rivers Network. And so they can dictate how this mining interest gets used. And then I just wanted to let you know it's a uh a solution I feel very comfortable with, and I hope you all do as well. So thank you.
[Applause]
**Peter Jabin:** We respond to the free gift of God's grace by offering our own gifts of time, talent and treasure to the church. Uh today we are participating in uh United Methodist Special Offering for Native American Ministries to celebrate the gifts and contributions made by Native Americans to the United Methodist Church and to our society. Your gifts may support a Native American Seminary students tuition, provide continuing education for pastors enrolled in the Native American course of study, secure a grant to churches who need to restore their worship space, or other challenges, uh assist the work of your annual conference's Committee on Native American Ministries and much more. Uh half of Native American Ministries offerings remain in our annual conference and half go outside of the conference. Um so you can use the envelope to make that special offering. Uh as we enjoy the gift of music at this time, the Ushers will come forward and collect the offering.
[Music]
### Offertory: "Native American Ministry Sunday video"
**Peter Jabin:** [Voiceover] Did you know, when you donate to the Native American Ministry Sunday Offering, you support ministry programs to voice the Native Americans diverse culture, Seminary scholarships for United Methodist Native Americans, and committees on Native American Ministries. Native American Ministry Sunday calls us to recognize and support the contributions of Native Americans to the church and society. Donations collected allow us to collaborate with existing Native American Ministries and support seminary scholarships for United Methodist Native Americans. The Conference Committee on Native American Ministry administers these funds, and 50% of the offering remains in your annual conference to equip and empower local congregations. Help us develop and strengthen Native American Ministries. Your gift helps our ministry advocate and share the history and traditions of Native peoples. Give in person, by mail, or online at UMC.org/SSgive. Native people, we're working towards seven generations ahead, not for just the next generation. We say seven generations. We're losing art and culture that is coming back to some Native tribes. But we're also reaching people who are not Native people. Mary T. Newman organizes the annual Native Moccasin walk event for the Tennessee Conference of the United Methodist Church. It's a time for education and celebration, and an opportunity for elders to pass on traditions. We still have 569 federally recognized tribes, plus state recognized tribes. And 363 languages, then you have a lot of different traditions.
### Call to Discipleship
**Pastor Jeremy:** Just a few items for the Call to Discipleship today, and then I'll invite Jerry up to share about Pride. Uh first uh today, right after worship, is the um uh end of Ministry Year celebration. We'll be downstairs in the Fellowship Hall. Please head to head directly there uh right after worship. Um and then um uh next week on uh uh next week is my last Sunday with you. Um and so we will have a um a a celebration, a roast, something. I'm not sure what it is, after worship. Um I'm not in charge of after worship. So uh come and plan on uh having uh lunch with us uh all together. Um and now I'll invite up Jerry to share with us um about uh Pride as we prepare for communion.
**Jerry:** Thank you, Pastor Jeremy, and uh good morning, First Church. So, first of all, I want to thank uh Lori Salmon. Uh she made the announcement last week about uh upcoming Pride Sunday, which is at the end of this month. And you're going to be hearing each one of these Sundays, uh additional announcements about this. And by the time we we get to Pride Sunday, hopefully we've given enough information that you have no questions. The good thing is, anything that we may miss announcing here is on the website. So I encourage you to go to firstchurchseattle.org/pride. It's very simple. And you will get to that website where all the information is, all the buttons you can click, uh anything that you need to know. So, first of all, um I just want to read from uh a little bit. Lori did this last week. I'm going to read it again. So, each year, First Church celebrates Pride Sunday on the last Sunday in June. This year, Pride Sunday falls on June 30th. This event is a chance to celebrate and affirm the LGBTQIA+ members of our community and to make a public statement about the care, love, and appreciation we have for each unique individual expressing their God-given identity. This celebration includes a special worship service, the opportunity to march in Seattle's Pride parade with other reconciling ministry network congregations, and a chance to serve cookies, drinks, and Holy Communion to all parade participants as the parade route concludes in front of First Church. And that's one of the most amazing thing. Uh, you know, whether you whether you say, you know, we're lucky, fortunate, or just uh heirs of good decision-making a few years ago, we are at this corner right here, which is at the end of the parade route. Uh where the the floats go one way, and the participants walk up Second Avenue, uh to go towards uh Seattle Center for the Pride Fest that occurs up there after the parade. And we get to show our hospitality. And it is such a a wonderful thing. Uh I think most people in this uh sanctuary have experienced this. If you're new to this congregation, this is something really to experience. Uh this is probably one of our our biggest Sundays in terms of what we get to experience as a congregation with our community. And so, um we have a special worship service that morning where uh not only First Church uh folks, but also other United Methodist congregations that that we are hosting here as a part of Pride Sunday. Uh they're going to be here with us and then they'll be leaving a little bit early to go march in the parade. So, just to emphasize, that service starts at 10:00 a.m. as opposed to 10:30. So I think that's the one Sunday the entire year that we have a different start time. So remember that, 10 10:00 a.m. And then we also on the website, you will see opportunities to uh make uh monetary donations towards our our uh cookies and other snacks that we pass out uh out on the street. Um or you can go to the Amazon page and see the uh the list of items that Duana has put together that you can uh choose specific items uh to donate uh to part of this uh effort. You will also see a button that you can go to that goes to a um a volunteer form. And this is where we really need you. We need people inside the building and outside the building, uh to be doing various tasks uh associated with that morning. So please go to that uh page and see what works for you, see what uh time period during the day can work for you. Once you sign up on the Pride volunteering page, uh somebody from the Pride team uh will reach out to you with more instructions about uh where you might be specifically needed. And then finally, uh there's Pride t-shirt orders. I'm wearing uh the Pride t-shirt that uh that you can order. Uh there's also if you choose, if you don't want a t-shirt, there's also aprons. Uh we'll get this unravelled here. Uh so this is the uh Pride aprons. A little uh looks like it's been worn before, but uh you will receive a brand new one. And so, um if you already have a t-shirt or an apron, um uh but you want to donate one, um there's something we're doing a little different this year than what we did last year. So First Church will provide free t-shirts and aprons to anybody who volunteers. And so, if you already have a t-shirt or an apron, um and you don't need another one, then you can donate your apron to First Church's Shared Breakfast ministry in place of receiving uh the apron yourself. So that's an option you'll have there on the website. So finally, in closing, um uh after this service, you'll see a table out in the Narthex where Lori and I can answer any of your questions or help you sign up. Um if you have any questions whatsoever, there is a uh an email link at the at the end of the Pride page uh that goes to uh pride and faith at firstchurchseattle.org. And that actually goes to my desktop. So if you have any questions at all about anything coming up for Pride Sunday, send me an email and I'll try to answer that for you. And just in closing, why am I volunteering? Um, you know, I love this church, love this congregation, love this community. Um, I could say that I feel like it's my responsibility, but you know, I feel like that that rings a little hollow. I volunteer because at this little half a block right here is kind of where my two worlds meet. Uh, my social world with with my gay friends, uh that are going to be coming through on this on this uh parade. Um, this is where they get to experience you all. Uh, this is where they get to experience the love and the hospitality that we as First Church can provide. Most of them do not go to church or even want anything to do with church. They know that my partner Charles and I do, and I want to be able to be part of of that love and that hospitality that we can provide. And we need your help to make it happen. So, thank you.
[Applause]
### The Sacrament of Holy Communion
**Pastor Jeremy:** Come now to the time of Holy Communion, where we gather around the table and we celebrate the word spoken, sung, and now shared. Shared in our bodies as we live out everything that we have learned. Because remember that that last night that Jesus had with his disciples, he gathered with them in body. And they broke bread, they raised it up, gave thanks to you, oh God, and then broke it, and passed it around and said, "Take and eat of this, all of you. This is the bread of life broken for you." Every time you eat of this, remember me. And at the end of the supper, Jesus took a cup, raised it up, gave thanks to you, oh God, then passed it around and said, "Take and drink of this, all of you. This is the cup of blessing poured out for one and for many for the forgiveness of sin. Every time you drink of this, remember me." So we ask, oh God, that you pour out your Holy Spirit on us gathered here. And on these gifts of bread and fruit of the vine, make them be for us the bread of life, and the quenching cup of blessing poured out for one and for many for the forgiveness of sin. May they nourish us. May they sustain us. Until we gather around your table again. All honor and glory is yours, Almighty God, now and forever, as we join together in the prayer that uh uh Jesus taught his disciples to pray, saying in whatever language is comfortable to you, or you can join in the words on the screen, saying:
**Congregation:** Our Father, who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy Kingdom come, thy will be done, on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread. And forgive us our trespasses, as we forgive those who trespass against us. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For thine is the Kingdom, and the power, and the glory forever.
**Pastor Jeremy:** The table is set. You're invited to come down the center aisle, you'll be given the gift of a piece of bread. Um we have gluten free available as well. Um you can then dip it in the cup held next to them, or you can take a single serving from that table there and deposit the empties at the um at the other end of the sanctuary as you go back to your seat from the side aisles. This is not the table of First Church. It's not the table of the United Methodist Church, it is Christ's Holy Table. And all you all you know what I mean. I was an Oklahoman. All you all are invited to come and celebrate with us this day. Come, the table is set.
[Music]
**Pastor Jeremy:** Will you pray with me? Holy God, feed us daily. Hold us fast. Calm our fears and send us forth boldly and joyfully into the world proclaiming your reign that is to come. Amen.
## Sending Forth
[82:30]
**Pastor Jeremy:** We are eight minutes over the worship service, but um Elisabeth knows, it's my favorite hymn. We're not skipping any verses. So please rise as you are able for number 451. Be Thou My Vision, and then we will have a benediction by our District Superintendent, Derek Nakano.
### Closing Hymn: "Be Thou My Vision" — UMH #451
**Congregation:**
Be thou my vision, O Lord of my heart.
Naught be all else to me save that thou art.
Thou my best thought by day or by night.
Waking or sleeping thy presence my light.

Be thou my wisdom, and thou my true word.
I ever with thee and thou with me, Lord.
Thou my great Father, I thy true son.
Thou in my all things, my treasure thou art.

Great God of heaven, my victory won.
May I reach heaven's joys, O bright heaven's sun.
Heart of my heart, whatever befall.
Still be my vision, O Ruler of all.
### Blessing & Sending
**Rev. Derek Nakano:** I want to thank Pastor Jeremy for giving me a few minutes just to bring greetings to all of you from Bishop Cedric Bridgeforth and your cabinet. I guess you could sit down. I won't take that long. I know we have a time limit here. First of all, I just want to thank you as I came into this gathering, and I appreciate very much the welcome you've offered me, and you didn't boom me. You didn't throw anything at me. As uh Jeremy gets prepared to leave you all, I know that this is a challenging time for this congregation. And yet, uh as I've experienced this worship today, and as I've experienced Pastor Jeremy's leadership, surely you all are in the midst of this transition, moving forward in faith, continuing to have strong vision and continuing to believe and hope in that future. I know that Pastor Jeremy has done so much to lift up this congregation, uh and as much has given you a strong vision, uh that comes to us from Jesus Christ, that reminds us that the church will continue forward, uh as you move into new leadership. Um as you look at the worship bulletin for those of you who do have a worship bulletin in front of you, if you look at that worship bulletin and think about what we've shared in worship this day, we have confessed that we have fallen short at times in our faith journey. We have celebrated uh volunteers and all of the ways that they have stepped forward in faith and offered themselves uh for uh the cause of Jesus Christ, not just in this church, but also for your community and for the world. And you've centered all of that in the uh at the table, as you recognize that it is the presence of Christ, and the love of Christ, and the spirit of Christ that's inside of all of us, that gives us a sense of meaning and purpose, that drives us forward in faith, and continues to inspire us uh to that new day. Um and so as we do all of that, we are just so grateful and thankful for the gifts that we've celebrated this day, and for the ways that Ed has charged us as we go forth from the sanctuary into the future. I did want to say something. I'm not sure if Jeremy if you brought this up, but uh that image that's on the screen before you is a really powerful one for me. It comes out of a Japanese tradition, an art form called Kitsugi. Um and that art form is to take broken pieces of a pot and bring it back together, knowing that all the although the the pot is broken, when it's drawn back together, it is an art form that gives off a great sense of beauty. So we think about the world that we live in now, we live in a time of deep fragmentation. There's much brokenness inside of us, there's much brokenness in our world. And yet, as we have experienced worship this day, what we have been reminded of, that it is the love of Christ that lives in you, and that flows through you, that can be the thing that brings broken and fragmented pieces together to help us to create a new world. And so our prayer this day is that as you've been inspired in that way in this time of worship, that you would go forth into this world to share that message with all that you encounter, knowing that it truly gives life, and truly allows us to believe and hope for a new day for ourselves and for our world. So I invite you to stand just for a brief word as we go from this place. As we have experienced all of that, we go forth with the blessings of Christ, knowing that the Christ has drawn you into this place, that the Christ has gifted you and called you into service, and now Christ sends you forth into the world. And as you go into that world, may that spirit continually abide and bless you, empower you and strengthen you, but also help you to know that you as individuals, and you as a church, can go forth to change the world. We go forth in the name of Christ, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. Amen.
**Congregation:** Amen.
[Music]