---
date: 2024-06-23
title: Fifth Sunday after Pentecost
preacher: Barbara Moreland
sermon_title: A new thing? Really!
scripture:
  - Isaiah 43:15-21
  - Philippians 3:4b-9
---
## Gathering
[02:35]
### Call to Worship

**Reagan:**
Our creative God is present.

**Congregation:**
In our church and in our fellowship.

**Reagan:**
Our compassionate God is present.

**Congregation:**
In our joys and in our pain.

**Reagan:**
Our energizing God is present.

**Congregation:**
In our study and in our work.

**Reagan:**
Our powerful God is ready to do something new.

**Congregation:**
May we recognize the spirit of God of all the opportunities around us.

**Reagan:**
And may we respond wholeheartedly to God's new thing.

Please join us in the opening hymn from your Red Hymnal 383, This is a Day of New Beginnings.

### Opening Hymn: "This is a Day of New Beginnings" — UMH #383

This is a day of new beginnings, time to remember and to run.
Time to believe what love is bringing, laying to rest the things that’s gone.
For by the Lord, and death of Jesus, God’s mighty spirit now has span,
Calling for us, a world of justice, as we have hope, we hope again.

Then let us, when the spirit's stirring, stand from the past and leave behind,
Hearts disappointed, filled and craving, seeking new paths as we're for mankind.
Christ is alive and goes before us, to show and share what love can do.
This is a day of new beginnings. Our God is making all things new.

### Passing of the Peace

**Reagan:**
Please remain standing as you are able and greet one another with signs of peace. If you prefer a touchless greeting, please place your hand over your heart. Hear the words of Jesus, "Peace I leave with you, my peace I give to you." The peace of Christ is ours through the Holy Spirit that dwells within us. The peace of Christ be with you.

**Congregation:**
And also with you.

### Welcome and Announcements
[07:32]
**Rev. Jackie:**
Good morning, everyone. Welcome to First Church. We welcome those who are new to our community. This is a place to explore your spirituality and bring your questions. We don't have all the answers, but together we ask the hard questions and confront the troubles and injustices that we see in the world. With God's help, we use our voices and energy to bring change.

I'm Pastor Jackie, a newly commissioned Deacon in the United Methodist Church. I am also now the Associate Pastor of Congregational Engagement here at First Church. Last Sunday, during the Pacific Northwest Annual Conference, I was commissioned and I stand before you today for the first time as Reverend Jackie.

In robe and all with this cross as a gift from the conference. I stepped into this church 20 years ago at our previous location down on 5th and Columbia when I was just a 20-something year old. And when I stepped into those doors and shook many of your hands, I had thought I was just looking for a Methodist Church to call home, far away from Michigan where I was born and raised, with a good choir that I could sing in. I got that and so much more. Never in my wildest imagination would I have expected to be here in this capacity today.

You have welcomed me with your radical hospitality and helped form me through Bible studies, choir practices, service opportunities, small groups, and just by being you, a congregation committed to following Jesus, growing deeper in your spiritual connection to God, and standing up to injustices that we see in the world. It is an honor to continue to serve God through First Church in this role, and I feel blessed for the opportunity to serve God alongside all of you. And so thank you, from the bottom of my heart. Thank you.

Just two weeks ago, we said goodbye to our beloved senior pastor, Pastor Jeremy, who was with us for seven years. And now we are preparing to welcome our new senior pastor, Pastor Wanji Joe, who will start in a few weeks. In the meantime, we have some amazing guest preachers lined up, including Deaconess Sophia Octop, that was with us last week, and our very own Barbara Moreland that is with us today.

Barbara needs no introduction as she does so much for First Church already. An active lay member who has preached for us often, Barbara is currently the Co-Chair of our Sacred Experiences Program Area, and in about a week, she will be stepping into her new role, although not new to her, as Church Council Chair. She was in that role many years ago at our previous building location when I was just starting here at First Church. We are so grateful for the many ways that Barbara shares her numerous gifts at First Church, and we are blessed to have her preach with us today.

Thank you all for being here, and at this time, I will ask that you please fill out our check-in and our communication connection card, found in your bulletin or online on our Sunday Live Stream page. You can note any prayer requests you have there, or there are some checkboxes for some opportunities if you'd like to know more information.

And throughout the next few weeks, as we invite our guest preachers here at First Church, we have invited them to share some of their favorite scripture passages with us and to explain why those scripture passages are so important to them. And now, I will invite Reagan, our worship leader, up to lead us in our new land acknowledgement and the lighting of our community candle.

### Land Acknowledgement
[11:56]
**Reagan:**
We acknowledge that we stand on the traditional homelands of the Duwamish, the first people of Seattle. We honor and respect members of the Duwamish tribe, past and present, as well as the land and waters we share. May we live consciously and respectfully with one another, mindful of the sacredness of all God's creation.

### Lighting the Community Candle
[12:20]
**Reagan:**
And now we will be lighting the community candle. Anyone feel young at heart?

Whoever you are, wherever you find yourself today, across the spectrum of human existence, sexuality, identity, ability or privilege, in a world full of questions, doubts and a climate in crisis. May this community be a place of companionship and healing for you. There is nothing that can separate us from God's all-embracing love. Christ invites you, Christ invites us to find him in worship and celebration today.

### Special Music: The Day Is Coming — Mark Miller
[13:19]
The lands in longing call out your name.
The tongues are different, the prayers the same.
With humble spirits then we believe.
That God is bigger than we can see.
The day is coming, the Lord will move.
With the hand of justice and the heart of love.
The will of heaven on this earth be done.
The day is coming, oh let it come.

With willing spirits then we obey.
No strangers to us, let us stand.
We are strangers, longing to know.
With mercy open that he knows.
The love of God, the word redeemed.
The day is coming, the Lord will move.
With the hand of justice and the heart of love.
The will of heaven on this earth be done.
The day is coming, oh let it come.

Lord, there in grave's black, we must reclaim.
With hearts believing each other's fear.
The cross we carry, to make a place.
To plant tomorrow, seeds of peace.
Let's plant tomorrow, seeds of peace.
The day is coming, the Lord will move.
With the hand of justice and the heart of love.
The will of heaven on this earth be done.
The day is coming, my day is coming. My day is coming.
The day is coming. The Lord will come.
With the hand of justice and the heart of love.
The will of heaven on this earth be done.
The day is coming, oh let it come.
Oh let it come.

## Prayers of the People
[17:43]
**Reagan:**
Please join me in a position of prayer that is comfortable to you. The prayer today I have taken from Xavier University's prayers for social justice.

We cannot merely pray to you, O God, to end war, for we know that you have made the world in a way that people must find their own path to peace within themselves and with their neighbors.

We cannot merely pray to you, O God, to end starvation, for you have already given us the resources with which to feed the entire world if we would only use them wisely.

We cannot merely pray to you, O God, to root out prejudice, for you have already given us eyes with which to see the good in all people, if we would only use them rightly.

We cannot merely pray to you, O God, to end despair, for you have already given us the power to clear away slums and to give hope, if we would only use our power justly.

We cannot merely pray to you, O God, to end disease, for you have already given us great minds with which to search out cures and healing if only we would use them constructively.

Therefore, we pray to you instead, O God, for strength, determination, and willpower, to do instead of just pray, to become instead of merely to wish.

Let us not be afraid to defend the weak because of the anger of the strong, nor afraid to defend the poor because of the anger of the rich. Show us where love and hope and faith are needed and use us to bring them to those places. And so open our eyes and our ears that we may this coming day be able to do some work of peace. Amen.

### Prayer Response: "Come and Find the Quiet Center" — TFWS #2128
[19:51]
Come and find the quiet center
in the clamor and strife,
find the room for hope to enter,
find the frame where we are free.
Where our chaos are not closed,
where our eyes that we can see.
All the things that really matter,
be at peace and simply believe.

## Proclaiming the Word
[20:47]
**Nickie:**
Those of our scriptures today present us with possible new things in the life of God's people. Our Old Testament reading comes from the prophet Isaiah. Isaiah is speaking to the Hebrew people who have been conquered and removed from their homeland and enslaved by the Babylonians. And in spite of their current circumstances, Isaiah's message is one of hope. He assures the people that just as God wants to save them from captivity in Egypt, that he has a plan for returning the conquered people to their own country.

The second reading is from the letter of Paul to the church at Philippi. And here Paul proudly begins to tell us about all his qualifications and accomplishments that make him a good man and a good Jew. But after his conversion experience and a new understanding of Jesus, Paul reexamines his former value system and draws some new conclusions.

Thanks to Nickie and Warren for leading us through the scriptures today.

### Old Testament Reading: Isaiah 43:15-21
[22:11]
**Nickie:**
The Old Testament reading is from Isaiah chapter 43, verses 15 to 21.

I am the Lord, your Holy One, the Creator of Israel, your King. Thus says the Lord who makes a way in the sea, a path in the mighty waters, who brings out chariot and horse, army and warrior. They lie down, they cannot rise. They are extinguished, quenched like a wick. Do not remember the former things, or consider the things of old. I am about to do a new thing. Now it springs forth. Do you not perceive it? I will make a way in the wilderness and rivers in the desert. The wild animals will honor me, the jackals and the ostriches. For I give water in the wilderness, rivers in the desert, to give drink to my chosen people. The people whom I formed for myself, so that they might declare my praise.

### New Testament Reading: Philippians 3:4b-9
[23:35]
**Warren:**
Our New Testament reading is from the third chapter of Philippians. As Barbara pointed out, Paul starts by bragging of his bonafides and then moves to contrition and affirmation.

"If anyone has reason to be confident in the flesh, I have more. Circumcised on the eighth day, a member of the people of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew born of Hebrews, as to the law, a Pharisee. As to zeal, a persecutor of the church, as to righteousness under the law, blameless. Yet, whatever gains I had, I have come to regard as loss because of Christ. More than that, I regard everything as loss because of the surpassing value of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord. For his sake, I have suffered the loss of all things, and I regard them as rubbish in order that I may gain Christ and be found in him, not having a righteousness of my own that comes from the law, but one that comes through faith in Christ, the righteousness from God based on faith. This is the word of life."

**Congregation:**
Thanks be to God.

## Sermon: A new thing? Really!
**Preacher:** Barbara Moreland
**Scripture:** Isaiah 43:15-21, Philippians 3:4b-9
[25:24]
Will you pray with me?

Holy One, may the words of my mouth and the meditation of all of our hearts be acceptable to you, our rock and our redeemer. Amen.

It will come as no surprise to many of you that I am one of those people who actually thrives on change. And when I say change, I don't mean a simple adjustment like a new hairstyle or a new responsibility at work. Excuse me. I'm talking about radical, life-altering, start all over again transformation. Those moments when you jump laughing into the unknown.

For example, I love to do things for the first time. Visiting places I've never seen before, except in movies. Meeting people whose experiences are radically different from mine. Even hearing languages I don't understand and can't decipher. And as I look back on my life, I can identify certain times when I reinvented myself. Changing my career, moving to a part of the country that's beautiful, but that I had never been to before. Jumping on an opportunity specifically because it requires a step into the unknown. And over time, I've learned that when I allow myself to wander, to risk, to question, to grow, when I embrace real change, amazing things happen.

But while, yes, amazing things can happen, sometimes change is really, really hard, and sometimes very, very scary. Sometimes it means giving up something or someone that you love. A new thing can require more from you than you think you have left to give. Change can sometimes look like failure rather than success, and more like loss than gain.

And honestly, even for someone like me who welcomes the challenge of new experiences, there are moments when I say, "Enough." I think we've all said that or at least thought it, especially in the past, mmm, two to four years. At times like this, I admit that my conversation with God sounds a little bit whiny and a little bit desperate.

"Hey, God, haven't you given us a new stuff, a new things often enough now? We gave up our everyday lives, our freedom of movement, our ability to be with our loved ones. And, hey, don't we get extra credit for all the positive changes we've made? We added live stream to our Sunday worship. We do enrichment classes and support groups and church business on Zoom. And on top of all that, now our congregation is stepping into a new cycle of change and adjustment and unknowns caused by the loss of one pastor while we wait for another one. Isn't that enough? I mean, really, God, are you asking us to change, to adapt again?"

And you know what usually happens when I try explaining my version of reality to God? God answers. "Stop whining and get to work. My plans are not finished. The work is not complete. Yes, I do want you to keep changing, keep growing, finding new ways to be curious and creative. I am continuing to do a new thing. Do you not perceive it? Can you not see the needs?"

So how do we find the courage and the energy as individuals, and the will as a collective body, to embrace whatever it is God has still in store for us? Let's begin by looking at our scriptures. What do they tell us about change? The promise of radical transformation is a recurring theme and a constant promise in the Old Testament, in all the stories of the Israelite people.

In Isaiah 43, the prophet is speaking to a fragmented and conquered people, many of whom are still slaves in Babylon. Isaiah's message is, first of all, to remind the people of God's deep love for them. He says, "Before you are precious, because you are precious in my sight, and honored, and I love you, do not fear, I am with you." And then God promises to restore the people to their status as a nation.

Isaiah reminds them of the events that occurred in their Exodus from Egypt, when God began the process of transforming a group of scared, impatient, ex-slaves into God's chosen people. And now, despite the fact that the Israelites have repeatedly turned from God's law and the covenant and repeatedly suffered the consequences of those decisions, God has never abandoned them.

God now promises a new exodus. It will be difficult, like making a road in the wilderness and rivers in the desert, but God will intervene on their behalf, gather the people together, and restore the exiles to their homeland. That's God's promise. But the real challenge and the real blessing of this passage comes in the last verses that Nickie read. God doesn't plan to simply put a patch on an old system. God promises new life.

"Do not remember the former things or consider the things of old. I am about to do a new thing. Now it springs forth. Do you not perceive it?"

What does the new thing look like for the Israelites? Well, it's their new beginning. Their chance to start over, to look forward rather than backwards, to imagine possibilities rather than complain about their former troubles. It is their opportunity to leave behind the anger and hurt of exile and be excited and grateful and energetic about rebuilding their holy city. This is their time to recommit themselves to the covenant they have with God and to reestablish their worthiness as God's chosen people. It is their time to move forward in gratitude for God's gift of doing a new thing among them.

Radical change and transformation is also a central idea in the New Testament, as well as the Old, and there's no better illustration of this than Paul's life. Now, I've admit I've experienced some significant changes over the years, but nothing I've been through even holds a candle to all that the dramatic transformation of Saul of Tarsus, as he was originally known. And in Philippians, as Warren read, the now Apostle Paul gives a sort of resume, listing all his qualifications as a good man. He was born into the right family and raised according to the letter of the law. Sort of reminds me like some of some of you cradle Methodists who've always had it right. He was a passionate keeper of the religious traditions, a serious leader in the synagogue, and a super zealous defender of his faith and what he thought it required. He was an outstanding leader in his community and in his church, just like many of you.

But everything changed on that road to Damascus, where old Saul came face to face with the Christ he didn't believe in, and whose followers he was actively persecuting. From that moment on, Saul became Paul, and he was radically changed. His life was a completely new creation, born of an encounter with the same one who told the Israelites, "I am about to do a new thing. Do you perceive it?"

And Paul did perceive it. He got it, and he acted on it. By the time he was writing this letter to the Philippians, he could say that whatever status, whatever power, whatever riches he had in his former life, "I consider everything a loss in light of the surpassing knowledge of my savior Jesus Christ, for whose sake I have forfeited everything."

Paul's radical change required him to give up his life of privilege to one of physical hardship. He left his position of power, became a social outcast, and eventually a political prisoner. But instead of arguing the fine points of religious law that extended back for centuries, he spent years founding new teachers, new churches, teaching converts how to organize a totally new religion, and settling squabbles about who could join and what they could eat. For Paul, transformation meant taking all the advantages, intelligence, education, energy, single-mindedness, even crazed conviction that he had once used and devoted to fight against the Christian movement and putting all of that, all of these resources into the service of that same cause. That really was a new thing.

I believe God still requires radical change from us. I believe God wants to build God's new world and to care for all God's people. And I believe that every day God gives us opportunities to serve our neighbor, endows us with the wisdom to solve difficult problems, inspires holy anger and divine strength for fighting oppression, discrimination, and exclusion.

We are capable of being radically changed through God's grace. Like the Israelites, we might not stay on the right course all the time, and we may suffer the consequences of some of our bad decisions. But we are given second and third and fourth chances, and we will never be abandoned by our patient, loving God.

Like Paul, we may be on a path we believe is righteous and correct, devoting all our energy to a cause only to find out that we are misguided or we are pursuing our own agenda, not God's.

Like Paul, we can be changed. When we perceive God's plan and become instruments in God's continually unfolding possibilities for humanity and creation. When we allow God to create a new thing in us, amazing things happen. The hungry are fed, the lonely are comforted, the stranger is welcomed, the earth protected, justice, injustice defeated.

Sometimes change is demonstrated through simple, small, private moments. A meal together, a phone call, a hug. Other times it is expressed in powerful and mighty movements, like an organized rally or a protest parade. But either way, we, you and I, become the instruments through which God does God's work.

We are the new thing that the world desperately needs. God wants to bring change to this world, to create a new thing based in acceptance, respect, equality, and love among all people. God wants to use us to make those things happen.

"Do not remember the former things or consider the things of old. I am about to do a new thing. Now it springs forth. Do you not perceive it? And when you perceive it, how will you respond?"

Glory be to God. Amen.

## Responding
[40:14]
**Reagan:**
We respond to the free gift of God's grace by offering our own gifts of time, talent and treasure to the church. While we enjoy the gift of this time of music, you can use the envelopes in the pews or the links on the screen to make your own gifts today.

### Offertory: New Every Morning — Assad and Maher
[40:50]
In the beginning, you hovered over the waters.
You broke and unbroke silence.
You spoke light into darkness, and there was light.
In the beginning, we were made in your image.
And we were naked, without shame.
'Til we fell for the darkness, and there was night.
Your mercies are new. Your mercies are new. New every morning.
Your mercies are new. Your mercies are new. New every morning.

In the beginning, there was the Word, and he was God.
And the Word was with God.
And he dwelt among us. And there was life.
Oh, in the beginning, the Lamb of God was broken.
And his blood was poured out, for the sins of the world.
And there was life.
Your mercies are new. Your mercies are new. New every morning.
Your mercies are new. Your mercies are new. New every morning.

### Offering Response: "Walk With Me" — TFWS #2242
[44:34]
Walk with me, I will walk with you
And build the land that God has planned till love shines through.
Walk with me, I will walk with you
And build the land that God has planned till love shines through.

### Call to Discipleship
[45:16]
**Rev. Jackie:**
We come now to our call to discipleship, the time in our worship services where we take the words that we've heard spoken and sung and put those into action to recognize how God is calling us to radical change, to doing something new in our lives and in the world, to receive it and respond. Our first opportunity today is Leave it to Beavers. Today, after the worship service, we will have a special event put on by our Church and Society Committee. Join us for a deep dive into the importance of Beavers to a healthy ecosystem. Using their skills as natural builders and brilliant hydro engineers, beavers can transform and revive landscapes. The event will feature a 10-minute video followed by a speaker's presentation and Q&A. The speaker will be April Rhodes with Beavers Northwest, a local organization that seeks to increase the acceptance and understanding of beavers to support healthier and more resilient ecosystems. Children are welcome to attend this kid-friendly event. We urge you to stay for lunch and attend in person downstairs in our fellowship hall.

Our second opportunity is an evening with Bill McKibben. First Church is hosting this event on Tuesday, July 2nd at 7:00 PM, and it's being presented by Third Act Washington. Bill is a long time and well known author, educator and environmental activist, and this will be a talk about what's needed now to save our planet and democracy. What's bringing him joy and gives him hope, and why he believes Third Act can have a huge impact on making our world a better place for all of us and for many generations to come. We are about at capacity for our in-person registrations, so we are encouraging people to register for the live stream. Please see Tom Carlson afterwards if you have any questions. And next, I will invite up April Little, who will talk about our big Pride event happening next weekend.

**April:**
Hello. Before I give a few announcements about Pride Sunday next weekend, I just wanted to say a little thing about what Pride, why Pride is important to me. Pride is important to me because I am queer and a theologian, and that's not a contradiction. LGBTQ plus people have so many gifts to bring to the church, and I'm excited to continue to bring my gifts. Yesterday, I received my Master of Arts in theology and Culture Community Development from the Seattle School of Theology and Psychology.

So church on June 30th will begin at 10:00 AM, not 10:30 AM. People can go to First Church Seattle dot org slash Pride for any Pride Sunday details and to sign up to volunteer, make donations, or order t-shirts. The Pride webpage has places where people can make monetary donation to help fund the cookies, or purchase specific items on Duwamish Amazon page that will be delivered. Amazon purchases need to be made by Wednesday, June 26th at noon. This option, Duwamish really wants us to have these items delivered through Amazon directly. We do need some volunteers on Saturday, June 29th from 11:00 to 2:00. So go to Duwamish to talk about that. Anyone that ordered a t-shirt apron can pick those up on Pride Sunday. There's a table set up in the Narthex if you have any questions and want to sign up to volunteer. And if you have any questions between now and next week, you can contact the Pride team at Pride and Faith at First Church Seattle dot org.

**Rev. Jackie:**
Thank you, April, and we celebrate with you on this huge accomplishment of your graduation and the journey you've been on the past few years with your theological education and what's next. Our last opportunity is that we are hiring. We are looking for an Office Manager/Bookkeeper. For more information about that, you can look in our bulletin or head online. If you know of someone with these great skills, then please get in touch with us. Many ways for for us all to get involved in the life of the church here at First Church. And if you have any questions, feel free to get in touch with us afterwards. And now we'll move on to our time of Holy Communion.

### The Sacrament of Holy Communion
[50:43]
Okay, I think I figured out the mic system this, this morning. So we come together to celebrate. Just as Jesus and his friends did and we are friends of Jesus or potential friends, I don't if you're new and don't know quite what this is all about. You're still welcome to come to the table. It's how you experience the love of God, I believe. It is right and a good and joyful thing, always and everywhere to give thanks to you, O God, creator of heaven and earth. Holy one who created the intricacies of our universe out of nothing, bringing new things to life from the majestic, overflowing waters of the oceans and the rivers, to the grandeur of the mountains, from the hope of the light at day to the calming and rejuvenating presence of the night. And from the tiniest creatures that sustain our ecosystem to humanity that roams the earth, you, loving God, are constantly making all things new.

Holy are you, and blessed is your son Jesus Christ. Jesus, our redeemer who taught us how to step into something new by calling his disciples to leave behind their lives as they knew it, as fishermen and tax collectors, and to come follow him. Through these actions, Jesus reminds us that through our faith in God, we can do challenging new things. And through Jesus' resurrection, we recognize that hope and new life are abundant as we let go of that which binds us. And on that night, in which he gave himself up for us, Jesus took the bread, broke it, gave thanks to you, and gave it to the disciples saying, "Take, eat. This is the bread of life, broken for you. Do this, as often as you eat, remember me."

And when the supper was over, Jesus took the cup, blessed it and gave it to the disciples saying, "As often as you drink from this cup of blessing, do so in remembrance of me." And so, we ask, O God, that you pour out your Holy Spirit on all of us gathered here, and on these gifts of bread and fruit of the vine. Make them be for us, the bread of life and the quenching cup of blessing, poured out for one and for many for the forgiveness of sin. May they nourish and sustain us till we gather around your table again. By your Spirit make us one with Christ, one with each other, and one in ministry to all the world.

Through your son Jesus Christ, with the Holy Spirit in your Holy Church, all glory and honor is yours, almighty God. Amen. Now, because there is one loaf, we who are many are one body. For we all partake of the one loaf. The bread which we break is a sharing of the body of Christ. The cup over which we gave thanks, is a sharing in the life of Christ.

And now we join together in the prayer that you taught your disciples to pray, saying in whatever language is comfortable to you, or you can join in the words on the screen.

**Congregation:**
Creator, who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our trespasses, as we forgive those who trespass against us. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory forever. Amen.

**Reagan:**
Holy God, feed us daily, hold us fast, calm our fears and send us forth boldly and joyfully into your world, proclaiming your reign that is to come. Amen.

## Sending Forth
[62:38]
### Closing Hymn: "God of Rainbow, Fire, and Thunder" — TFWS #2238
[62:52]
**Reagan:**
Go in peace. May you find God's new thing for your life. Amen.

In the midst of nude and adventures, in the face of changing ways,
You will lead us, through all hindrances, following your wondrous grace.
God of rainbow, fire and thunder, leading with a joyful song,
We are people, out to journey, now and ever, now and ever, now and evermore.

With the wonder, side by side, pouring passions and distress,
You will lead us through all hindrances, who will laugh for graciousness.
God of rainbow, fire and thunder, leading with a joyful song,
We are people, out to journey, now and ever, now and ever, now and evermore.

When the cycles of your building by your wondrous, mighty hand,
You will lead us, through all hindrances, by your precious, holy land.
God of rainbow, fire and thunder, leading with a joyful song,
We are people, out to journey, now and ever, now and ever, now and evermore.

### Blessing and Sending
[64:52]
**Barbara:**
Please receive this blessing. There is no place we can go that God has not been before. There is no experience we can have that God has not imagined. There is no emotion we can feel that God does not feel with us. As we evolve through the mysteries and adventures of life, God is consistently ahead of us, offering us a new way forward, inviting us into a new relationship, and leading us into a blessed future. Go in peace and may you find God's new thing for your life. Amen.