---
date: 2024-11-10
title: Twenty Fifth Sunday after Pentecost
preacher: Rev. Wongee Joh
sermon_title: God's call for justice
scripture:
  - Ruth 3:1-5, 4:13-17
  - Mark 12:38-44
---
# Twenty Fifth Sunday after Pentecost
## Gathering
[01:06]
### Prelude: The Gift of Love
arr. by Elisabeth Ellis, pianist

### Call to Worship
**Kurt Armbruster:**
Beware of those interested in politeness over justice.

**Congregation:**
Beware of those interested in images over solidarity.

**Kurt Armbruster:**
Beware of those interested in status quo over liberation.

**Congregation:**
Beware of those interested in comfort over transformation.

**Kurt Armbruster:**
Beware of those interested in personal gain over mutuality.

**Congregation:**
For the living God is unswayed by the logic of empire.

**Kurt Armbruster:**
She is unmoved by the appeals of oppressors.

**Congregation:**
She weaves us together towards collective freedom.

**Kurt Armbruster:**
She is wily and gentle.

**Congregation:**
She is radical and compassionate.

**Kurt Armbruster:**
And with us, She does not back down.

### Opening Hymn: "O Love that Wilt Not Let Me Go" — UMH #480
O Love that wilt not let me go,
I rest my weary soul in thee;
I give thee back the life I owe,
That in thine ocean depths its flow
May richer, fuller be.

O Light that followest all my way,
I yield my flickering torch to thee;
My heart restores its borrowed ray,
That in thy sunshine's blaze its day
May brighter, fairer be.

O Joy that seekest me through pain,
I cannot close my heart to thee;
I trace the rainbow through the rain,
And feel the promise is not vain,
That morn shall tearless be.

O Cross that liftest up my head,
I dare not ask to fly from thee;
I lay in dust my weary head,
And from the ground that blossoms red
Life, new life, shall spring for me.

### Passing of the Peace
**Kurt Armbruster:**
Hear the words of Jesus: "Peace I leave with you; my peace I give to you." The peace of Christ is ours, through the Holy Spirit who dwells within us. The peace of Christ be with you.

**Congregation:**
And also with you.

## Welcome and Announcements
[09:03]
**Rev. Jackie Celin:**
All right, let's start heading back to our seats. It's great to see everyone today. Good morning, First Church.

**Congregation:**
Good morning!

**Rev. Jackie Celin:**
Good morning. We're going to try that again as everyone finds their spots back in their pews. There will be time to talk with one another after the worship service as well, I promise. All right, good morning, First Church.

**Congregation:**
Good morning!

**Rev. Jackie Celin:**
Thank you for joining us in worship today, whether you're here in person or joining us online. We welcome those who are new to our community. This is a place to explore your spirituality and to bring your questions. We don't have all the answers, but together, we ask the hard questions and confront the troubles and injustices that we see in the world.

With God's help, we use our collective voices and energy to bring change. I invite you to fill out our check-in and communications or connection card. Um, there's a digital form, there's a QR code up there on the screen for that. Um, if you're here in the sanctuary, we do have a paper version that's in your bulletin. Um, either option is fine. Go ahead and fill that out. There's places to note any prayer requests that you may have. Also, if you'd like more information about First Church's ministries and mission. Uh, we also have a QR code for name tags. Um, if you would like a name tag printed for yourself, um, go ahead and use that QR code and one of our following Sundays, we'll have that available for you at our welcome table in the Narthex as you, uh, come in from the outside.

We also have hearing assist devices available. Those are in those colorful little boxes over there at the bottom of the stairs that lead up to the balcony. Um, I understand that, uh, uh, some of them may need a new battery. Um, uh, the person that, um, usually charges those up is still currently in Japan at the moment. So we do have some extra nine-volt batteries over there. If you find one that's not working, feel free to take one of those nine-volt batteries and put that in, and I'm sure someone could assist you with that as well.

Um, and then one last, uh, note is, uh, St. Sebastian's sculpture that was in the sanctuary for the month of October is still with us. Uh, she is now back in the Narthex next to the stained glass window. And we do have a printed letter from the artist that was with us, um, earlier in October, uh, that talked about, uh, the meaning of the sculpture, its importance to us and thinking about our role, um, in climate justice. And so we invite you to take a look at that letter that is over there on that little blue table next to the sculpture. And now I'll invite Kurt up to lead us through our land acknowledgment and the lighting of our community candle.

## Land Acknowledgement
[11:53]
**Kurt Armbruster:**
Please join together as we acknowledge the sacred lands on which we stand.

**Congregation:**
We acknowledge that we stand on the traditional homelands of the Duwamish, the First People of Seattle. We honor and respect members of the Duwamish tribe, past and present, as well as the land and waters we share. May we live consciously and respectfully with one another, mindful of the sacredness of all God's creation.

### Lighting the Community Candle
**Kurt Armbruster:**
Whoever you are, wherever you find yourself today, across the spectrum of human existence, sexuality, identity, ability, or privilege, in a world full of questions, doubts, and a climate in crisis, may this be a community, a place of companionship and healing for you. There is nothing that can separate us from God's all-embracing love. Christ invites you, Christ invites us to find him in worship and celebration today.

## Prayers of the People
[17:28]
**Kurt Armbruster:**
Dear God, hear our prayers. You have heard this before, but it takes on special meaning this week that God, grant me the courage to change the things that I can, and the serenity and peace to accept the things that I cannot, and the wisdom to know the difference. This week has been a time of trial for many of us. We cannot fathom the turn, the wrong turn that our nation has taken.

We feel our country has been outfoxed by propaganda and by hate. The nation has chosen a person who shows only a veneer of Christianity, and only when it is convenient as a photo op. Today we we pray for a return to a nation and a life of Christian values. Peace and reconciliation, compassion and kindness, forgiveness, fairness, honesty and integrity, generosity and charity, and respect for human dignity. Let us return to a nation of hope. God, give us the strength and courage to live this life and to not lose faith. Let us keep these values and hope in our hearts and in our vision of a life well lived. Amen.

### Prayer Response: "Lord, Be Glorified" — TFWS #2150
Lord, be glorified.
We know we are here to say,
Come and be Lord, be glorified.
We know we are here to say,
Come and be Lord, be glorified.
Lord, be glorified.

## Proclaiming the Word
[20:19]
### Old Testament Reading: Ruth 3:1-5, 4:13-17
**Dana Kirby:**
The Old Testament reading is from Ruth.

Naomi, her mother-in-law, said to her, "My daughter, I need to seek some security for you, so that it may be well with you. Now, here is our kinsman Boaz, with whose young women you have been working. See, he is winnowing barley tonight at the threshing hour. Now, wash and anoint yourself, and put on your best clothes and go down to the threshing floor. But do not make yourself known to the man until he has finished eating and drinking. When he lies down, observe the place where he lies. Then go and uncover his feet, and lie down. And he will tell you what to do."

She said to her, "All that you say, I will do." So Boaz took Ruth and she became his wife. When they came together, the Lord made her conceive, and she bore a son. Then the women said to Naomi, "Blessed be the Lord, who has not left you this day without next of kin, and may his name be renowned in Israel. He shall be to you a restorer of life, and a nourisher of your old age, for your daughter-in-law who loves you, who is more to you than seven sons has borne him."

Then Naomi took the child and laid him in her bosom, and became his nurse. The women of the neighborhood gave him a name, saying, "A son has been born to Naomi." They named him Obed. And he became the father of Jesse, the father of David.

### New Testament Reading: Mark 12:38-44
**Erin Elaine Gail:**
The Gospel lesson for today is from Mark.

As he taught, he said, "Beware of the scribes, who like to walk around in long robes and to be greeted with respect in the marketplaces, and to have the best seats in the synagogues and the places of honor at banquets. They devour widow's houses and for the sake of appearance say long prayers. They will receive the greater condemnation."

He sat down opposite the treasury and watched the crowd putting money into the treasury. Many rich people put in large sums. A poor widow came and put in two small copper coins, which are worth a penny. Then he called his disciples and said to them, "Truly I tell you, this poor widow has put in more than all those who are contributing to the treasury. For all of them have contributed out of their abundance. But she, out of her poverty, has put in everything she had, all she had to live on."

The Gospel of our Lord.

**Congregation:**
Thanks be to God.

## Sermon: God's call for justice
**Preacher:** Rev. Wongee Joh
**Scripture:** Ruth 3:1-5, 4:13-17; Mark 12:38-44

So here we are again.

First, thank you for being here. I need you. We need each other. The world needs us. The world needs love. Not just in this moment in history, but throughout history, empires come and go. We'll get into one of those stories in the lectionary reading today.

Autocrats would like to keep power by having its people fear, isolate, exhausted, disoriented. And so the most resistant thing, the most fully human thing, the most dignified thing we can do is to say, "We are here." Love cast out fear.

We will Sabbath. It's okay to be exhausted. We will Sabbath together. Life is disorienting. We said it before, change is certain, change is inevitable, change is constant. And out of chaos, God created order.

We gather. We gather. Praise be to God. This is exactly where I need to be. As hard as it is, as I joked with Peter, "Would you like to preach today?" And I wasn't as smart as some pastors who scheduled ahead for someone else to preach, regardless the results.

Recently a new bishop in the Episcopal Diocese in New York was, uh, installed, Bishop Haid, and, uh, his vision for his diocese was, "The spirit is moving on the grounds." The spirit is moving on the grounds. Out of the earth God blew the spirit and we humans were created. We are people of the ground. We are entering, we, not entering, we have always been people of the grounds. We have always been resisting. Even in our United Methodist Church it took us almost five decades, but a person by person gathering, calling in, calling out. Local churches reconciling.

God have mercy on our global Methodist Church, where it's so much easier now to hold hands with a governing, where you can say, "Oh, the church and government are saying the same thing." Christ have mercy on us.

Look at your the cover of your bulletins. That's a copy of a page out of our membership book. And Verle usually sits right there, but I don't see him with us. He was received back into membership here. 1941 is where his name is, it's towards the bottom of the list there.

1853 is what's on our cornerstone out there at First Church. On top of results of elections, I had to read, uh, in the United Methodist Church news about, uh, a church now renamed Udi United Methodist Church. Udi means we. It is a Korean United Methodist Church, originally named Asbury United Methodist Church. It was given to the immigrant Korean congregation as that church died off. It merged with the DuPage United Methodist Church and became Naperville United Methodist Church. It is the church I was confirmed in. It is the church that disaffiliated. 87% vote. It is the church that locked the doors and called the police. It is the church that the United Methodist Church filed a lawsuit. It is the church in which the facilities and the land and everything has now been returned back to that church. It is a United Methodist Church.

Phew!

We had All Saints Day. We have Veterans Day tomorrow. We had post-election. It's a lot, folks. It's a lot, folks. I cried, I grieved, I had some chicken pot pie, I compartmentalized and took care of the things I had to take care of and show up for. I called on the name of Jesus.

Let's get back 2000 years. We have a lot of history. Let's go back 2000 years. Let's go back to the story about, uh, this widow. Widows, there's different names in the Bibles, widows, off, orphans, silent ones, expendables, leftover pieces, alluding to Naomi and Ruth who were gleaners, and they would pick up the leftover pieces. Leftover pieces, kind of like the first sermon, I think it was, when I came there with the leftover pieces of bread after the feeding of the 5000. And so you have this widow, uh, expendable, the most vulnerable.

It's interesting that even in our biblical times, we don't think of trees as the most expendable, right? Or pets and animals as most expendable. In that biblical time, I don't know that Jesus addressed climate justice, but Jesus surely informed us by saying, "Look at the lilies of the fields." So in today's story, she's the most expendable. She's the most, uh, vulnerable, no name. And, you know, in our Old Testaments, in the law of Israel, uh, in the Jewish traditions, they did take care of widows by work, by law of the letter and by spirit of the word. They were laws and rules to take care of the widows and the orphans.

I wonder about this woman. What's her name? We don't know anything about her except that she's a widow. Is she a blind widow? I mean, we can assume she's poor, and she's probably housing isn't that in her favor. Um, is she a Samaritan woman? Is she a Jewish woman? Is she from Judea or Galilee? Is she an older woman? You know, or is she really young? Who is this woman?

Let me share a story about a widow I knew. She died this year. Her name is one of the names that I remember in the candle lighting. This widow had a son, who I met, uh, he was very young, died in his early 40s. Brain tumor, cancer. When I met him, I met him through his mom, this widow. He hadn't been coming to church. He served two tours of duty in Afghanistan, was injured, had the brain tumor, came back, and his mom invited that I would go visit him at the veterans hospital. And if you know a really nice veterans hospital, let me know, all the veterans hospitals I've visited are not as nice as private sector, and that's not blaming the government, it's all of us, right? It's all of us.

I go visit him and slowly as I got to know him, he he shared that he went through confirmation class in his youth as a United Methodist. And he chose not to get confirmed. He chose not to get confirmed because he looked at his mom, a widow, uh, who was raising five kids. And all he could see is that she gave everything to the church, when she didn't have enough to give. Not only just financially, but she would give her time, she would give, uh, her joy, she would give her shortbread cookies. She would go sing to, you know, back in the day, when you went and you visited the people during Christmas time and you gave your carols. And he said he couldn't understand that. He said, "The church, he felt God stole from her." And so he said he couldn't get confirmed. He didn't believe in this God. And you know what? Back in the day, and I don't know, maybe some churches still do, we preach on the widow's mite, you know, if this poor woman, so vulnerable, so expendable, can give out of everything of her giving and give, whoa, how much more for us who have so much more that we should give all of what we have. I think that's a very poor interpretation. Your pastor won't be going down that route. I think that would marginalize that widow a little bit too much. And as I got to know him and he became, uh, letting go as he continued to accept that he would be dying. He said, "Do you think God, that, do you think, pastor, that God is punishing me because I never got confirmed?"

No, God is not punishing you because you didn't get confirmed. I share this story to bring back, remember in love, someone God loved so deeply. For me to find myself having that conversation with someone, seeking, still asking the questions, exploring, a gift. He's two coins, if you want to say. Him as that penny, him as all of how God values us, given to the treasury. And we had this further conversation. What about your mom's agency? She had a choice. She chose to give of what she could. She has agency. All of us have agency. All of us have choices. No matter what the world says, you're just a, you know, uh, veteran with PTSD, you know, moral injury, moral injury from the impact of war. But expendable. Just put him into the veterans hospital and don't take care of their psychological needs. And, you know, they're having a hard time finding a job. Uh, even churches outcast veterans as well. We're not, you know, we're peaceful people, we're not for war. Uh, there are other choices in life.

I remember him and his mom as people with agency, with choice. This woman had her agency, her witness, and this is where, let me point us to Jesus. So if you go back two stories, the person suffering from blindness, "Son of God, have mercy on me!" waiting for a Davidic kingdom, an empire, a powerful kingdom to come to save the people. King David was a widow maker. Yes, killed Bathsheba's husband.

Last week, Lazarus was dead for four days. If you chronologically put the story in order, from this story to the time of Jesus's own days, death four days, four days. Jesus notices this woman. Jesus sees this woman. She sees, he sees her dignity. Her agency informs Jesus. She is prophetic. She is resilient. And in that moment of Jesus noticing her, Jesus's choice was not predestined. This is where last week we talked about a fully alive human being. When we are accountable, when we have agency, and we have choices, fully alive in the divine will. Jesus notices this woman. Worthless, speechless, no power. And he sees what she can do with her agency. When she gave everything, the word, Greek word here is bios, life. Do you think she lived? She gave everything of her life, it says. Everything of her life. Likely four days later she died. And so Jesus, this is the prophetess who witnessed to Jesus what it means to trust, to trust God, to trust another world possible, to trust the power of an imagination, of prophetic imagination.

Do we notice? Who do you notice? This election is not the only time that we should notice our trans friends. And we haven't, thank you, First Church. We notice. We notice immigrants. We notice asylum seekers. We notice women. We notice people without medical reproductive care and medical care equitably. We notice those suffering from houselessness. We notice the expendables. This is God's gift. Our agency. God's act of justice, given us full agency, given us freedom. How do we, why are we here? Because somehow we experience Jesus live his full humanity. Jesus giving it all, just like this woman.

Jesus sees us. We are noticed. We are heard. Go and do likewise. No empires rising, no empires brought down can keep the foolish ones, can keep the foolishness of God. God is holding God's self accountable to us in and through this value and seeing of this woman. God held God's self accountable to us in and through Jesus. May we be no less accountable. May it be so.

## Stewardship Moment
[42:15]
**Don Crawley:**
Listen. Can you hear it? Can you hear the music of the spheres? Pythagoras believed that all of the celestial bodies were somehow connected. Mathematically or harmonically, through a grand cosmic symphony that he referred to as the music of the spheres. Unfortunately, you and I, as mere mortals, as mere humans, can't hear it because he believed that it's constant nature made it something that we simply couldn't hear.

You are a musician. Everyone here is a musician. You're a musician through the music of the choir, through Elizabeth, when she raises her hands to conduct. When the musicians sit at the piano, keyboard, or with the organ, and play music. But you're more of a musician when you raise your voices in harmony, as the heavenly congregation. Praising the almighty and everlasting God.

But the music started long ago, long before we raised our voices in song, long before the choir started singing, long before the sounds of the organ or the piano came came out. The music started when you and I made a commitment to the grand cosmic symphony in our heart.

When we answered the call, as the psalmist in Psalm 150 said, "Praise God with the sound of the trumpet. Praise God with the psaltery and harp. Praise God with the timbrel and dance. Praise God with stringed instruments and organs. Praise God upon the loud cymbals. Praise God upon the high sounding cymbals. Let everything that hath breath and life praise the Lord. Praise ye the Lord." If that ain't a cosmic symphony, I don't know what is. If that ain't the music of the spheres, I sure don't know what is.

During this time of stewardship, let us sing a song of thanksgiving, as if the music we long to hear is already playing. Let us sing a song of thanksgiving, as if the music we long to make is already playing. Let us sing a song of thanksgiving, as if we can already hear the glorious music of the spheres.

During this time of stewardship, we, the musicians of First Church, that means all of us are grateful for 171 years of congregational support of music in the church. And during this time of stewardship, we are humbly asking for your support for music for the coming year. Can you hear it? Can you hear the glorious music of the spheres? Amen.

## Responding
[46:39]
### Offertory
**Kurt Armbruster:**
We respond to the free gift of God's grace by offering our own gifts of prayer, presence, gifts, God's tithes, service, and witness to the church for the transformation of our world. While we enjoy the gift of this time of music, you can use the envelopes in the pews or links on the screen to make your own gift today.

### Offertory Music: "Lay Up Your Treasures in Heaven" — Pepper Choplin, Sanctuary Choir Ensemble, Elisabeth Ellis, Director
Lay up your treasures in heaven,
Where people lay up their treasures in heaven.
For people lay up their treasures in heaven,
For people lay up their treasures in glory.
When all the treasures in this world will fade away.
Oh, listen, people, hear the pastor say.
Come and lay up your treasures in heaven.
For people lay up their treasures in glory.
All the things of the Lord will last forevermore.
Forevermore.

Don't lay up your treasures in this world, they'll fade away.
Oh, listen, people, hear the pastor say.
Come and lay up your treasures in heaven.
For people lay up their treasures in glory.
All the treasures in this world will fade away.
Oh, listen, people, hear the pastor say.
Come and lay up your treasures in heaven.
For people lay up their treasures in glory.
All the things of the Lord will last forevermore.
Forevermore.

Some people trust in their silver and gold,
They put their faith in the wealth untold.
But all will fade and all will fall,
So put your trust in the Lord alone.
Won't you lay up your treasures in heaven.
For people lay up their treasures in glory.
When all the treasures in this world will fade away.
Oh, listen, people, hear the pastor say.
Come and lay up your treasures in heaven.
For people lay up their treasures in glory.
All the things of the Lord will last forevermore.
Forevermore.
Forevermore.
Forevermore.

### Doxology: "Praise God, From Whom All Blessings Flow" — UMH #95
Praise God, from whom all blessings flow.
Praise God, all creatures here below.
Praise God above, ye heavenly host.
Praise Father, Son, and Holy Ghost.
Amen.

### Prayer of Dedication
**Rev. Wongee Joh:**
Let us share in the prayer of dedication together.

May these gifts bear witness.

**Congregation:**
Let us not numb ourselves, O God.

**Rev. Wongee Joh:**
Let us rest when needed.

**Congregation:**
Let us resist when needed.

**Rev. Wongee Joh:**
Let us love and gather.

**Congregation:**
As we give of these gifts, we conceive of your abundant love.

**Rev. Wongee Joh:**
Midwife us, O God, to give birth in the ways of love and justice in your world, still yet coming. Amen.

### Communion Hymn: "You Are My All in All" — WS #3040
You are my strength when I am weak,
You are the treasure that I seek.
You are my all in all, seeking You as a precious jewel.
Lord, to give up I'd be a fool.
You are my all in all.

Jesus, Lamb of God, worthy is Your name.

Taking my sin, my cross, my shame,
Rising again I bless Your name.
You are my all in all.
When I fall down, You pick me up.
When I am dry, You fill my cup.
You are my all in all.

Jesus, Lamb of God, worthy is Your name.

You are my strength when I am weak,
You are the treasure that I seek.
You are my all in all, seeking You as a precious jewel.
Lord, to give up I'd be a fool.
You are my all in all.

Jesus, Lamb of God, worthy is Your name.

Taking my sin, my cross, my shame,
Rising again I bless Your name.
You are my all in all.
When I fall down, You pick me up.
When I am dry, You fill my cup.
You are my all in all.

Jesus, Lamb of God, worthy is Your name.

### Holy Communion
**Rev. Wongee Joh:**
Let us be seated.

One of our many gifts as followers of Christ in every age and every circumstance is that the sharing in holy communion. We come out of isolation and into communion. During the week I watched a service offered in Washington, D.C. and was moved by the way Reverend Donna Claycomb Sokol offered a new to me kind of prayer of confession. And the word confession is from the Latin word _confrateri_ meaning to bring to light together. To bring to light together. The following is my adaptation of it, I invite you to come just as you are with grief, fears, anxieties, exhaustion, numbness, shock, acceptance, peace, joy, calm, a returning. Let us come with all of our emotions, feelings, hearts, bodies, spirits, mind because we come as whole humans, full of the glory, given agency and dignity, that means broken and all. I invite us to name in our hearts all that is broken without shame or judgment, come as we are.

**Congregation:**
Widows, orphans, silenced ones, expendables, widow makers, like King David himself, broken.

**Rev. Wongee Joh:**
Veterans, people of Haiti, Sudan, Congo, Israel, Palestine, Ukraine, Russia, United States, broken.

**Congregation:**
Lakes, rivers, oceans, corals, polar bears, lambs, donkeys, elephants, sparrows, doves, bears, bulls, lilies, irises, stars, mountains, valleys, broken.

**Rev. Wongee Joh:**
Elderly, children, men, women, trans, non-binary, LGBTQIA+, immigrants, refugees, asylum seekers, black, indigenous, non-majority people, poor, rich, colonizers, oppressed, victims, racist, rapists, pregnant, broken.

**Congregation:**
Churches, communities, denominations, political systems, Senate, House, Supreme Court, governing bodies, Seattle, broken.

**Rev. Wongee Joh:**
Economy, access to mental health, access to affordable housing, access to health care, including mental and reproductive, broken.

**Congregation:**
You, me, we, us, broken.

**Rev. Wongee Joh:**
The bread that was, is, and will be, broken, again and again. The cup of love, love that was, love that is, love that will be, everlasting to everlasting. Please join us in the projected uh responses. May God watch over you.

**Congregation:**
And also with you.

**Rev. Wongee Joh:**
Offer your hearts to the one who creates new life for those who are empty.

**Congregation:**
We bring our lives to God, the restorer of human life.

**Rev. Wongee Joh:**
People of God, give thanks to the one who gives us all things.

**Congregation:**
We give our thanks to the one who gives life to all generations.

**Rev. Wongee Joh:**
Once and for all you spoke. God of overflowing gifts. As your word called the sun to shine and the earth to spin. As your hand stirred the dust, shaking us, shaping us in your image. As your spirit breathed grace into our empty lungs. You would feed us with peace, but we gnaw on the bread moldy with anxiety. When you would clothe us with glory, we put on the long robes of sin, the hems dragging through dusty death. In vain the prophets rose early to speak your words of invitation. In vain they stayed up late into the late hours, watching for our return to you. Yet out of the abundance of your love, you sent Jesus to us, so that we might not live in the poverty of our despair and fear. With Ruth and Naomi, Boaz and David, the unnamed widows in poverty, orphans and children between borders, beloved humans and creatures and nation, cast aside with less than the full God-given dignity, created in your own divine image. We join our voices as we sing to you.

**Congregation:**
Holy, holy, holy God of grace. All creation is filled with the bounty of your love. Hosanna in the highest. Blessed is he who has not yet left us without hope. Hosanna in the highest. You are holy God, God of wonder and wisdom. Blessed and blessed is Jesus Christ, our brother, who left you, in faith and obedience, to enter humanity's world. Not as a mere copy, but truly as one of us. Again and again he pointed to you, restorer of broken lives, nurturer of every hungry heart, lover of each child. Sitting opposite death, watching as we went down to its threshing floor, he offered himself in our place, putting in everything he had, so we might receive the gift we need to live on with you. Remembering his gentleness and generosity. Remembering his compassion and clarity. We speak of that mystery we call faith. Christ died once and it was for all. Christ was raised once and for all. Christ will return to bring all home to God. Once and for all, pour out your spirit upon us gathered here around your bountiful table, where life and love are placed. You nourished us with your bread filled with gentle grace. So that fed we may serve those who hunger for hope in their lives. You restored our fledgling spirits, from the overflowing cup of joy. So that refreshed we may take new life to the poor and hopeless in every place where they are found. And when the foundation of the world is no more, when we enter that heaven, made by your own hands, when we sit with our siblings and feast where we are fed from your heart. We will offer glad songs of joy to you, God in community, holy in one. Amen.

**Rev. Wongee Joh:**
Let us share in the longing of the taste of the kingdom on earth collectively as we join together in the echoing prayer of Jesus.

**Congregation:**
Eternal Spirit, Earth-maker, Pain bearer, Life-giver, Source of all that is and that shall be, Father and Mother of us all, Loving God, in whom is heaven: The hallowing of your name echo through the universe; The way of your justice be followed by the peoples of the world; Your heavenly will be done by all created beings; Your commonwealth of peace and freedom sustain our hope and come on earth. With the bread we need for today, feed us. In the hurts we absorb from one another, forgive us. In times of temptation and test, strengthen us. From trial too great to endure, spare us. From the grip of all that is evil, free us. For you reign in the glory of the power that is love, now and forever. Amen.

**Rev. Wongee Joh:**
God's gift to us in Jesus Christ. Love endures. The love we received and the love to which you pour out.

## Sending Forth
[74:01]
**Rev. Wongee Joh:**
Friends online and here, the table is ready. This is the table of love. There are no bars. There are no guardrails necessary around this table. All are welcome. Come as you are.

### Closing Hymn: "What Does the Lord Require of You" — TFWS #2174
What does the Lord require of you?
To seek justice, love kindness,
And humbly walk with your God.
What does the Lord require of you?
To seek justice, love kindness,
And humbly walk with your God.

Do justice, love kindness, walk humbly.
Do justice, love kindness, walk humbly.
Do justice, love kindness, walk humbly.
Do justice, love kindness, walk humbly.

What does the Lord require of you?
To seek justice, love kindness,
And humbly walk with your God.
What does the Lord require of you?
To seek justice, love kindness,
And humbly walk with your God.

Do justice, love kindness, walk humbly.
Do justice, love kindness, walk humbly.
Do justice, love kindness, walk humbly.
Do justice, love kindness, walk humbly.

Look around! Look around!
Look at your neighbor to your left,
Look at your neighbor to the right,
Look at your neighbor behind you,
Wave to your neighbors on screen!

You are created in God's divine image,
Imbued with divinity,
You are loved by Christ Jesus
Who gave you it all, gave you all.
By the power of the Spirit on the grounds,
By the power of love in this community,
Love in the people that we see
As worthy and valuable, no matter what
Anyone tells us, go!
Go, love, and go, love mightily.
Go, love with all.
Go, love so that the coins can be heard,
Like the music of the hears, clink, clink,
Another world is coming.
Amen.

### Benediction
**Rev. Wongee Joh:**
Amen.

## Announcements
[78:28]
**Rev. Jackie Celin:**
All right, and, uh, for any other announcements, I'll refer you to our e-news, back for your bulletin, our TV screen there out in the Narthex. But let, let us all stand as we are able in body and spirit, and join together in our closing hymn. It's a fun one. This is one of my favorite ones, uh, because it's my favorite scripture. 2174. "What does the Lord require of you?" And this is sung in a round, and so we have wonderful choir leaders that are going to help us with this. And so if you're standing close to uh Dana, you're going to be um the first part of the round. If you are standing close to Carrie, you're going to be the second part. And if you're standing close to Janet, you're going to be the third part. And feel free to sing with whoever you want. Now let us sing uh all together.

### Postlude: Improvisation on “O God of Every Nation”
**Elisabeth Ellis:**
All right. And, uh, for any other announcements, I'll refer you to our e-news, back for your bulletin, our TV screen there out in the Narthex. But let, let us all stand as we are able in body and spirit, and join together in our closing hymn. It's a fun one. This is one of my favorite ones, uh, because it's my favorite scripture. 2174. "What does the Lord require of you?" And this is sung in a round, and so we have wonderful choir leaders that are going to help us with this. And so if you're standing close to uh Dana, you're going to be um the first part of the round. If you are standing close to Carrie, you're going to be the second part. And if you're standing close to Janet, you're going to be the third part. And feel free to sing with whoever you want. Now let us sing uh all together.

**Rev. Jackie Celin:**
Thanks, Jackie. You may have noticed a lack of organ music for the last three Sundays. Um, if you've ever wanted to see what the inside of an organ is like when the organ is gone, I invite you to check out what's going on over here. Um, apparently I wore the keyboards out by playing so much. Uh, and they're being replaced. So what what we've done is have the actual keyboards pulled out and they're getting all new tracking pads. It's kind of like your computer keyboard. But if you want to look at this, this is hopefully the last Sunday it will ever be this way. Um, and thank you for your financial support in repairing that. Hopefully this is the only time that will ever have to happen either. Um, and then so today for the postlude, it's a video from the pandemic. I can't believe I had to go back and pull those out. But I wanted to invite you, um, as the video is playing, to follow along in your hymnal. I chose this one because of the lyrics, I feel like they're very appropriate. Uh, so if you want to be following along as the video is playing, it's number 435. And I just encourage you to pray these words with me as we listen to the music that I will not be physically playing.

**Rev. Jackie Celin:**
All right. And, uh, for any other announcements, I'll refer you to our e-news, back for your bulletin, our TV screen there out in the Narthex. But let, let us all stand as we are able in body and spirit, and join together in our closing hymn. It's a fun one. This is one of my favorite ones, uh, because it's my favorite scripture. 2174. "What does the Lord require of you?" And this is sung in a round, and so we have wonderful choir leaders that are going to help us with this. And so if you're standing close to uh Dana, you're going to be um the first part of the round. If you are standing close to Carrie, you're going to be the second part. And if you're standing close to Janet, you're going to be the third part. And feel free to sing with whoever you want. Now let us sing uh all together.

**Rev. Jackie Celin:**
Thanks, Jackie. You may have noticed a lack of organ music for the last three Sundays. Um, if you've ever wanted to see what the inside of an organ is like when the organ is gone, I invite you to check out what's going on over here. Um, apparently I wore the keyboards out by playing so much. Uh, and they're being replaced. So what what we've done is have the actual keyboards pulled out and they're getting all new tracking pads. It's kind of like your computer keyboard. But if you want to look at this, this is hopefully the last Sunday it will ever be this way. Um, and thank you for your financial support in repairing that. Hopefully this is the only time that will ever have to happen either. Um, and then so today for the postlude, it's a video from the pandemic. I can't believe I had to go back and pull those out. But I wanted to invite you, um, as the video is playing, to follow along in your hymnal. I chose this one because of the lyrics, I feel like they're very appropriate. Uh, so if you want to be following along as the video is playing, it's number 435. And I just encourage you to pray these words with me as we listen to the music that I will not be physically playing.