---
date: 2025-12-21
title: Advent 4 | Cantata Sunday
preacher: Rev. Wongee Joh
sermon_title: Seeds of Liberation
scripture:
  - Luke 1:39-55 (New Revised Standard Version)
  - Luke 2:1-7 (NRSVue)
  - Luke 10:25-28 (NRSVue)
---
# Advent 4 | Cantata Sunday

## Gathering
[01:12]
### Prelude
Mark Wilson, guitar

### Call to Worship

**Erin Elaine Williams:**
Our souls magnify the Holy among us!

**Congregation:**
Our spirits rejoice in the Way-Making God!

**Erin Elaine Williams:**
For God regards us with compassion and calls creation blessed.

**Congregation:**
God's mercy echoes through generations.

**Erin Elaine Williams:**
God scatters the imagination of the proud into open fields of solidarity.

**Congregation:**
God puts down the mighty from their seats and exalts those who care for their neighbors and planet home.

**Erin Elaine Williams:**
God nourishes the hungry and sends exploiters away with empty spirits.

**Congregation:**
Our souls magnify the Holy among us! Our spirits rejoice in the Way-Making God!

### Opening Hymn: "Toda la tierra" (All Earth is Waiting) — UMH #210

Toda la tierra espera al Salvador,
y a su venida alegra, Señor,
el mundo que lucha por la libertad,
reclama justicia y busca la verdad.

Israel, pueblo profeta,
de madre virgen y al bien fiel,
serás tú, como nosotros, hermano será
con él. Danos, esperanza, al mundo nuevo hará.

Nos dice el Padre, "Ahora he de perdonar,
que por sus caminos tendremos que trazar.
El ciego y sordo verá el mundo cambiar,
y todos, con fuerzas, lo ven de par en par.

¡Qué buena nueva! ¡Jesús apareció!
En él, el mundo, estará sin temor;
la fuerza del pueblo en él se realizará,
que vuelve de nuevo a la libertad.

### Passing of the Peace

**Erin Elaine Williams:**
Hear the words of Jesus: "Peace I leave with you; my peace I give to you."
The peace of Christ is ours, through the Holy Spirit who dwells within us.
The peace of Christ be with you.

**Congregation:**
And also with you.

**Rev. Jackie Celin:**
Good morning, First Church. Good morning.

I am Pastor Jackie. My pronouns are she and her. I am the associate pastor for congregational and community engagement here at First Church. And we are just so glad that you are worshiping with us here today. Whether you are joining us online or are here with us in the sanctuary.

We especially welcome those of you who are new to our community. This is a place to explore your spirituality and to bring your questions. We don't have all the answers, but together we ask the hard questions and we confront the troubles and injustices that we see in our world.

With God's help, we use our collective voices and our collective energy to bring change. I invite you at this time to fill out your connection card. We've got a couple different versions available. Uh, there's a QR code that will bring you to our digital version. If you are here in our sanctuary, there's a paper copy in your bulletin. There's also some throughout the back of the pews and at our welcome table in the Narthex in the back. Feel free to drop that in the collection plate later in the service, or you can bring it to me after the service.

Uh, we also have a digital form for name tags. We encourage everyone to wear a name tag so that we can greet one another. Um, and anyone can get one printed out for themselves. Just fill that out and we'll get it printed up for you and have it available at our name tag table in the Narthex at one of our upcoming Sundays.

We have hearing assist devices available. Um, those are can be found at the back of the sanctuary to my right, um, in that colorful set of boxes right by the stairs that lead up to the balcony. Feel free to use that throughout the service. We ask that you just please turn it off at the end of the service and then put it back into those boxes.

We love having kids in worship with us, and we have children's worship bags, um, to in the back of the sanctuary to my left on top of that little bookcase. Um, it's a way that children can be in worship with us and participate in the worship service. And you can just return those at the end of the service.

There will be no Children's Sunday School today, as we invite kids to enjoy our choir Cantata music in worship today. And then our next Children's Sunday School will be the second and third Sundays in January. Our adult spirituality class is also on a break until the new year. Uh, the next opportunity for that class will be a luncheon learn after worship on January 11th next year. And they are holding, um, they are holding this luncheon learn to kick off a new series discussing our updated denominational United Methodist Social Principles. Everyone is invited to attend that. Um, look to our, um, e-news, uh, for some future information about that and future registration.

Now I will invite up Pastor Wan G to say a few words.

**Rev. Wongee Joh:**
Dear First Church, We are God's beloved. And for friends online, um, on YouTube later as well as in person, and for all who was, um, in person or in spirit at the farewell service. I want to say all the words that we said to each other. 감사합니다. And given that it is my last farewell and then my sermon will be on Christmas Eve, I want to share something, um, a couple of Korean words. Now that you've all given me permission. But um, first let me start with teaching you something if your family plays Scrabble during the holidays. Our family loves board games. And here's a word that, uh, Elizabeth the director of our music will appreciate. It's called fuging. F U G U I N G. Um, a seven-letter word that, well, that one, however word that is if you use it as a verb or noun. Um, I just know if you put it in the triple word space, you can get 27 points. So if you remember nothing from my tenure here, remember fuging. Um, it come, I learned it during, and someone asked during the farewell, what's Pastor Wan G's favorite hymn? And was like, I don't know, but she loves to dance to Bob Dylan. And, um, someone picked, uh, one of Bob Dylan's songs from Soul Train, which is not, did not make him popular, and I don't know that I understand it or dance to it. Um, uh, but uh, why did I get on Bob Dylan? Anyways, my favorite hymn, that's why. One of my favorite hymns is Joy to the World. And we will sing that Christmas Eve. Not only will life that, uh, shines in the darkness and is not overcome, be seen on each one of our faces that night. Um, but we will be singing Joy to the World as our benediction song. And that's where that fuging comes in. It's that part where we say and the wonders of his love, and the wonders of his love, the wonders and wonders of Christ's love for us. You all know music is not my gift, but, um, and that is my favorite hymn. And that is my farewell blessing to us, that we will be bold people, courageous people, disruptive people, people who will not accept the world as it is, but how the world could be in God's love. Amen. The wonders of God's love. That is my deepest joy, and, uh, not only my blessing to you, but my deep gratitude for what you all have witnessed to as First Church. You have been people who embodied love in this church and in our community. People who practice peace in this church with one another and in this community. And as we've studied through Advent, peace is not the absence of conflict, peace is the presence of Christ. And we will be celebrating that on Christmas Eve. My blessing is that we will embody that hope for the world still here and still yet coming. Um, I have a special gift, not mine. God's gift. Because this is how God arrives. Unexpected, surprising, disguised as the gift of grace. So I want to invite up, this is not planned, this happened this morning. And as one of the words that was lifted up in affirmation of, uh, your pastor was that I can be spontaneous. So, Joe Johnson, would you do us the privilege of coming up? Joe Johnson, um, was a member at our Blain Veteran Center, and he came today specifically to offer a word of gratitude, uh, for us and this congregation as he leaves, uh, houselessness into a home. God is our home, Joe. Thank you for your proactive way in coming to share the good news with us this morning. Come on up and if you would use this microphone.

**Joe Johnson:**
Honestly, I did not know that this is her farewell. A lot of times, you don't get opportunity to see the work that you've done. to see the finished work that you've done. I'd like to say that I appreciate each and every one of you for what you're contributing, the investment of the veterans over there in the Blaine Center. A lot of times you don't get a report back on how many people get housed, but each and every week somebody's leaving there from homelessness, either getting into housing or getting into a drug rehabilitation program or something like that to better their lives. And that's out of the investment of this church. You all feed people every morning, I mean, well, on Sunday mornings, and I and me getting housing, I'm, I'm a Desert Storm veteran, um, no, uh, I was working for the VA, um, I got cancer, this, that, and the other thing. Circumstances arise, you know what I'm saying? I went to homelessness. And it's an organization, a lot of times you hear, thank you for serving, but when you see it put in action like this church has put in action, uh, it's like it's no way I could just possibly walk off and go in the housing and not stop to say thank you. Truly appreciate you all. Thank you.

**Rev. Wongee Joh:**
Thank you. God bless you.
Thank you. Thank you.

### Land Acknowledgement

**Erin Elaine Williams:**
Please join in unity as we acknowledge the sacred lands on which we now stand.

**Congregation:**
We acknowledge that we are situated on the traditional homelands of the Duwamish, the first people of Seattle. We honor and respect members of the Duwamish Tribe, past and present, as well as the land and waters we share. May we live consciously and respectfully with one another, mindful of the sacredness of all God's creation.

**Erin Elaine Williams:**
And now let us take a moment to center ourselves for worship together as we light our community candle.

**Erin Elaine Williams:**
Whoever you are, wherever you find yourself today, across the spectrum of human existence, sexuality, gender, identity, ability, or privilege. In a world full of questions, doubts, and a climate in crisis. May this community be a place of companionship and healing for you. There is nothing that can separate us from God's all-embracing love. Christ invites you, Christ invites us to find him in worship and celebration today.

### Welcome and Announcements

**Elisabeth Ellis:**
Good morning and welcome to Cantata Sunday. It's already an emotional, beautiful day. Um, this year we are featuring Conrad Susa's Carols and Lullabies, Christmas in the Southwest. We've provided program notes and translations in your bulletins so that you can follow along and also read more about how this work was created. I want to briefly speak to you about how we chose this piece, uh, to present to you today. Carols and Lullabies is a set of some of the most popular Spanish carols from South America and beyond. Today you'll hear carols sung in many dialects of Spanish, and you will hopefully recognize some of them. At least one is in our Red Hymnal. As I was considering what music to program for Cantata Sunday, I was also thinking about current events happening in our nation. There has been so much rhetoric that is anti-immigrant or specifically anti-Hispanic. In choosing to perform this work, the choir and I want to shine a light on the beauty of Hispanic culture, to share in the warmth and love and humor of these carols, which are so beloved in the Hispanic community, and to raise our consciousness on how different cultures all around the world celebrate this beautiful time of Christmas. I performed this set of carols a long time ago and I've always wanted to program them again for something special, but in planning this, I knew that we couldn't pull off this performance unless we could find three really important people. A really good harpist, a really good classical guitar player, and a really good marimba player, and thankfully we found all three, and they're amazing. Um, you'll remember David Solomon, who has worked with us at First Church for a long time. Uh, we're also happy to welcome this morning Jared Parsons on the harp and, uh, Mark Wilson on the guitar. We also have some guest soloists with us this morning. One of whom is Jose Rubio, who is performing a Las Posadas holiday concert complete with mariachi band tonight at Town Hall Seattle. You can talk to him after the service about that. And of course, we have our Sanctuary Choir, who have worked so hard on this music, especially learning many different dialects. We hope that you will join with us as we share the spirit and beauty of this music, and that you'll follow along with the translations in your program as we present Carols and Lullabies, Christmas in the Southwest.

## Proclaiming the Word
[21:44]
### Reading: Luke 1:39-55 (New Revised Standard Version)

**Craig Mathews:**
The first scripture reading for this morning is Luke 1:39-55. In those days Mary set out and went with haste to Judean town in the hill country where she entered the house of Zechariah and greeted Elizabeth. When Elizabeth heard Mary's greeting, the child leapt in her womb. And Elizabeth was filled with the Holy Spirit and exclaimed with a loud cry, "Blessed are you among women, and blessed is the fruit of your womb. And why has this happened to me that the mother of my Lord comes to me? For as soon as I heard the sound of your greeting, the child in my womb leaped for joy. And blessed is she who believed that there would be a fulfillment of what was spoken to her by the Lord." And Mary said, "My soul magnifies the Lord, and my spirit rejoices in God my Savior, for he has locked with favor on the lowly state of his servant. Surely from now on all generations will call me blessed. For the mighty one has done great things for me, and holy is his name. Indeed, his mercy is for those who fear him from generation to generation. He has shown strength with his arm. He has scattered the proud in the imagination of their hearts. He has brought down the powerful from their thrones and lifted up the lowly. He has filled the hungry with good things and sent the rich away empty. He has come to the aid of his child Israel in remembrance of his mercy, according to the promise he made to our ancestors, to Abraham and his descendants forever."

### Music: "¡Oh, mi Belén!" (Biscayan) | "El Desembre Congelat" (Catalonian)
Shawn Smith

### Reading: Luke 2:1-7 (NRSVue)

**Shawn Smith:**
Luke 2, 1-7. In those days, a decree went out from Caesar Augustus that all of the world should be registered. This was the first registration, and was taken while Cyrenius was a governor of Syria. All went to their own towns to be registered. Joseph also went to the town of Nazareth in Galilee to Judea, to the city of David called Bethlehem. Because he was descended from the house and family of David. He went to be registered with Mary, to whom he was engaged and to whom was expecting a child. While they were there, the time came for her to deliver her child. And she gave birth to her firstborn son, and wrapped him in bands of cloth and laid him in a manger, because there was no place in the guest room.

### Music: "Campana Sobre Campana" (Andalucian) / "En Belén Tocan a Fuego" (Castilian)

### Prayers of the People

**Erin Elaine Williams:**
Let us bow our heads in prayer.

Loving, mysterious God of peace and joy, we come to you in the nighttime of our spirits, waiting, hoping, anticipating. This season is a duality, restrained joy as we wait for the culmination of preparation, and sometimes trying to find joy among the sadness and worry of the season. God, help us have hope. We lift up vulnerable people to you, God. We pray for those being actively discriminated against and those being sabotaged. We pray for help and direction for our part to uplift struggling and vulnerable people caught in turmoil out of their control. God, we lift up all beings on Earth, including our animal friends across the Earth and oceans. Our very existence depends upon them, and yet our human species continues to exploit, and in some cases, decimate populations of them. God, we lift up the darkness of war, the darkness of harm and retaliation, the darkness of falsehood masking as truth. In this season, we also lift up the amplified darkness of loss. All powerful, compassionate God, we pray for light to shine into the darkness of all these things. God, you are right here with us all the time. Let us see your footprints beside us. Let us feel the breath of your hope, peace, joy, and love. God, amplify your gratitude, our gratitude, and joy to be channels of your peace and love, shining your light on those we meet. And when we can't feel it, let us feel you carrying us. Thank you for the little babies, for twinkling lights, presence, and special meals and gatherings. Thank you for positive interactions and trusted people. Thank you for the comforts that we have. We lift up our ministry and clergy into your care. Thank you for such intentional hard work. We offer love and blessings and gratitude. In the joy and busyness of this holiday season and during the seasons of our bleak midwinters. We look for you, God, and your son, Jesus Christ to give us hope, peace, joy, and love to transform ourselves and our world. Let us walk through this week bringing the little joys to those we encounter, feeling your hope and love. We humbly offer all these prayers to you, God. Our loving rock and redeemer. Amen.

**Erin Elaine Williams:**
Please join in the prayer response.

### Prayer response: UMH# Lo, How a Rose Eʼer Blooming, v. 1 and 3

Lo, how a rose e'er blooming from tender stem hath sprung!
Of Jesse's lineage coming, as those of old have sung.
It came, a floweret bright, amid the cold of winter, when half spent was the night.

O Flower, whose fragrance tender with sweetness fills the air,
dispel in glorious splendor the darkness everywhere.
True man yet very God, from sin and death now save us, and share our every load.

### Sermon: Seeds of Liberation

**Rev. Wongee Joh:**
Claremont United Methodist Church, East of Los Angeles and right next door to the seminary I attended, creates a new nativity scene every year to speak prophetically about the life of Jesus and the realities of those who are suffering, marginalized, and criminalized in our contemporary society. In 2019, they made national headlines with a nativity scene that displayed each member of the holy family in a separate, locked detention center cage. This thought-provoking display asks us to consider how our migrating holy family would be treated if they sought refuge here today. And now six years later, we continue to see families worry that they may be separated as our systems of governance try to deport as many people as possible, often through deceptive, despicable, and forceful, violent ways. Children sometimes arrive home from school to an empty home or to a missing parent who has been detained. Spouses are separated across borders despite having lived and contributed to our society peacefully for decades and becoming important parts of our communities where they live, work, and where their children attend school. And Claremont's nativity scene this year, we see two young parents carrying a young child through a city scape with a person lingering back in the shadows, perhaps an immigration agent. Claremont United Methodist Church issued the statement with this nativity scene. We decry the violence and fear inflicted upon our immigrant neighbors, and we call upon our nation and world to embody love, welcome, and compassion. Our choir Cantata this year, Carols and Lullabies, Christmas in the Southwest by Conrad Susa, continues our reflection on the Hispanic tradition of Las Posadas. Las Posadas comes from Latin American countries, especially Mexico, and dates all the way back to 1587. It takes place over the course of nine days from December 16th through the 24th, where each day represents one of the nine months that Mary carried baby Jesus in her womb. The songs we sang today in Spanish remind us of the carols the community sings by candlelight, as they gather at a nearby corner and caravan together to a different home each night, dressed as Mary, Joseph, shepherds, and magi, and reenacting a second scripture reading that we heard today, as Mary and Joseph seek shelter so that Mary can give birth. Last week, our children and youth gave us a glimpse of the service of shelter for the holy family, as they traveled throughout our sanctuary, knocking on doors and asking for shelter, only to be turned away several times before finding a place in the stable. It helps us understand what it must feel like to be turned away and not welcomed in just because of who Mary and Joseph were. A young family with little means in an unknown place. As we think about this in our current context, it reminds us how many immigrants in our own towns and cities must feel unwelcomed as horrendous acts of mass deportation continue, and as we limit who can access this country on the basis of wealth, level of education, country of origin, language spoken, and religion practiced. If we think it was so cruel to turn away the migrating holy family of Mary and Joseph, then isn't it also cruel to turn away people and families that seek safety and shelter here? Certainly, these actions were not in line with what Jesus would later teach. Jesus' birth brought the promise of love, reflected in the love of Mary and Joseph, the innkeeper that offered their stable, and later, in Jesus' words and actions, during his years of public ministry. In our third reading today, an expert in the law challenges Jesus, asking how to inherit eternal life. Jesus responds that we must love God wholly and love neighbor as ourselves. Not yet satisfied, the person then asked, who then is my neighbor? The story of the good Samaritan follows, in which the person who we least expect is the one who provides aid to the severely beaten man. Not the priest, not the devout religious person, but a person from another community and culture who follows different religious practices. Loving your neighbors means offering care and compassion when it is needed most, no matter who it is. As Pastor Wan G discussed last week, our region has been hit by historic storms and flooding, affecting people across five counties in Western Washington, Whatcom, Skagit, Snohomish, King, and Pierce Counties. Homes have flooded, roads have washed out, and some houses have even washed away. In my own community of Tukwila last week, a levee broke on the Green River, and 46,000 residents were initially issued a go-now evacuation notice. Thankfully, our public workers provided a temporary fix relatively quickly. But in the midst of connecting with people in my community and working with First Church leaders on how we might respond if needed, I was reminded of how everyone in this large region felt effects of the storm, and yet were ready to come together to help one another, recognizing that we are all neighbors together, regardless of culture, race, ethnicity, religion, or the language we speak. How can we extend that love and care beyond just the crisis happening to all of us in the moment? How can we speak up and act through an outpouring of love when we see unjust policies unfolding that cause significant harm to our most vulnerable neighbors? In our first reading today, Mary sings the Magnificat, a song of praise to God, a liberation anthem that emphasizes how God's love can change our unjust systems and practices. She sings for all our neighbors that have been harmed and continue to be harmed as power and wealth try to rule over us. She prophetically proclaims how God scatters the proud and brings down the most powerful. God lifts up the lowly, the poor, the oppressed, the unseen, the forgotten, the excluded and dismissed. God fills the hungry with good things. The love Christ brings this season is God's transforming love, a love reflected by Mary's song of praise. It is a love that extends across all things, all creation, and to all people. And so, I invite you to reflect on these questions that come from our General Commission on Religion and Race resource, Advent Promises for a Just World. Prepare your hearts for Christmas, the arrival of baby Jesus, and the promises of hope, peace, joy, and love that Jesus brings. The questions will be reflected here on the screen. First, how does Mary's vision of love in the Magnificat challenge our cultural assumptions? Second, what does it mean for love to be liberating rather than merely sentimental? And what might a community look like if it truly embraced Mary's vision of divine love? Third, who are the lowly and the hungry today, locally and globally? And in what ways has the church lifted up the lowly or failed to? And lastly, think about the world around you. What are some tangible acts of great love you can engage in right where you are to demonstrate God's divine, just love? How will you love your neighbor as yourself?

## Responding
[50:11]
### Prayer of Dedication

**Rev. Wongee Joh:**
A word of gratitude for all the people on General Commission on Race and Religion, who has, uh, shared the reflection questions and these Advent rituals with us in this season of liberation. An introduction to our ritual. The empire of this world can never prevent the just and equitable God from standing up and on the side of the most vulnerable, whomever they may be. God's love takes sides with the poor, the forgotten, and the excluded. Mary's song is bold prophetic declaration. God's love overturns unjust systems. The Magnificat echoes the cries of the prophets and the dreams of the oppressed. This is not a private lullaby. It is a liberation anthem. As Mary sang her revolutionary song, she carried not only the Christ child, but also the seed of a new world where the lowly are lifted and the hungry are filled. We too are carriers of that hope. You all should have a piece of paper. Yes? Oh, I'm sorry. It should be, okay, as I asked these questions, um, John and Karen will distribute them on the center aisle, and if you would pass one along to the folks next to you. From sea to seed. Take time for seeds to be planted, to germinate, to sprout. So let us, uh, take this few minutes here. It reminds me, Joe, that, uh, it's been a long time Joe coming to give us a word of his joy and finding a home. Seeds planted, sprouted, uh, times of germination. So thank you, Joe. On one side of the leaf, can we make sure our choir section two receives a leaf? On one side of the paper, would you please write the name of a person, a group, or community you feel called to uplift in the coming days? And on the other side, write one act of love or justice. They're two sides of the same coin. Remember, you cannot have one without the other. You can offer this week as a sign of hope. As you hold that leaf, it's, uh, symbolic of you. You are the seed. Hold it with gentle kindness. Hold the seed in your hand. Imagine Mary's voice echoing through history. He has filled the hungry with good things and lifted up the lowly. Let us bless these seeds of hope, reciting the call and response blessing below.

**Erin Elaine Williams:**
Charlie, would you come up for the Advent candle lighting?

**Charlie Bickford:**
God's love grows in unexpected places.

**Congregation:**
May hope take root in us.

**Charlie Bickford:**
God's justice rises like a song.

**Congregation:**
May we sing it with our lives.

**Charlie Bickford:**
God's Spirit makes all things new.

**Congregation:**
May we carry the promise of love into the world.

**Charlie Bickford:**
And today we light the fourth candle. Hope, peace, joy, and today love.

### Invitation to the Offering

**Rev. Wongee Joh:**
We respond to the free gift of God's grace by offering our own gifts of power, of prayer, presence, God's tithes, service, and witness to the church for the transformation of our world. Babies in their womb, and their close to oneness, invite us to remember our own beloved connection to all things. We gather our offerings because we are relational beings in a relational universe, connected to a relational God. Come, let us honor our interdependence. And while we enjoy this gift of music, you can use the envelopes in the pews or the links on the screens to make your own gift today. May the ushers come.

### Offertory Music: "Alegría" (Puerto Rican)

José Rubio and Curtis Anderson, soloists, with Sanctuary Choir and instrumentalists

### Doxology: UMH 203, Hail to the Lord's Anointed, verse 4

To Christ shall prayers unceasing and daily vows ascend;
His Kingdom still increasing, a Kingdom without end!
The tide of time shall never his covenant remove.
His name shall stand forever; that name to us is Love.

## Sending Forth
[59:55]
### *Closing Hymn: UMH #202 People, Look East

People, look east, the time is near
Of the crowning of the year.
Make your hearts ready, without delay,
Pull the world a new, the King will play.

People, look east, the time is near
Of the crowning of the year.
Make your hearts ready, without delay,
Pull the world a new, the King will play.

### Litany of Farewell

**Rev. Wongee Joh:**
God's banner over us is love. Amen. Here are the words that I promise earlier that I would share. If you ever watch Korean drama, something our family does over the holidays as well on Netflix, which is dominated by Korean rom-coms. You'll hear, you'll hear three phrases all the time. So you'll learn Korean if you watch these, uh, Korean rom-coms or movies. One, we already know. It was written on the banner at the farewell. It's the banner of God's love over us today that we say 감사합니다. 감사합니다. Thank you. The other that you always hear, and they're all stringed together, um, I hope you'll recognize at least one of them, is 미안합니다. 미안합니다. I'm sorry. 미안합니다. And that's part of our liturgy with our forgiveness, because we're human. And the other one is 사랑합니다. 사랑합니다. I love you. God's banner over us is everlasting, eternally love. I'm grateful for the announcement today for Reverend Elizabeth Ingram Schindler, full of love, and for Reverend Kathy Morse, full of love. We are blessed. And you will bless your new ministers. I'm going to say one word of 미안합니다 to my spouse, Ben, because in all the years that I have been itinerant, and we do this farewell litany, I have not invited him to come join me in the laying of hands. So I would like Ben to join me in the laying of hands for today's service. I was inspired by Barbara, who called my daughters for the farewell service. Thank you, Barbara. So when that time comes, if Ben would join me. And I invite all of you with love, with joy about justice. God is not done with us yet, to share in this litany. I thank you, the members and friends of First United Methodist Church of Seattle, for the love and support you have shown me while I have ministered among you. I am grateful for the ways my leadership has been accepted. I ask for forgiveness for the mistakes I have made.

**Congregation:**
We receive your thankfulness, offer forgiveness, and accept you as you now leave for a time renewed and blessed.

**Rev. Wongee Joh:**
As I leave, I carry with me all that I have learned here.

**Congregation:**
We express our gratitude for your time among us. We ask for forgiveness for our mistakes. Your influence on our faith and ministry will not be muted, but renewed with your work.

**Rev. Wongee Joh:**
I accept your gratitude and forgiveness, and I forgive you. Trusting that our time together and our parting are pleasing to God. I release you from turning to me and depending on me. I encourage your continuing ministry here and will pray for you and for your new interim pastor, Reverend Elizabeth Ingram Schindler, and Pastor Kathy Morse, and for future pastor to be appointed. God loves you. 하나님이 사랑합니다.

**Congregation:**
God loves you. Amen.

**Rev. Jackie Celin:**
The peace of God be with you always. Best of all, God is with and for us all. Now, may the love of God surround you. May the love of Christ flow through you. May the love of the Spirit empower you. Today, tomorrow, to the end of time. Amen.

**Congregation:**
Amen.

**Rev. Wongee Joh:**
Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.

### Announcements

**Rev. Jackie Celin:**
And now, First Church, let us go out and share God's divine transforming love in all that we do. As a reminder, we are collecting items for both our Blaine Veteran Center that houses veterans experiencing houselessness and for YouthCare, which supports youth experiencing houselessness. Check out the list of items needed, which is posted at the table with the black tablecloth in the Narthex. It's also in our e-news. Christmas Eve is the last day to bring in items and we will be dedicating those items in the service. Before today there was just one little lonely pair of gloves out there. I'm excited to see that, um, that has expanded, um, but please bring in items if you can on Christmas Eve. Later this afternoon we will be holding our annual Longest Night Service. Um, it, it, uh, occurs here in the sanctuary at 4:30 PM. Um, it's a time for us to recognize that the holiday season can be difficult for many. We'll remember lost loved ones and mourn the state of our world and planet. All are welcome. We hope to see you there. And then later this week, on Christmas Eve, December 24th, we will be holding one service again this year. It is at 7:30 PM. It will be a candlelight service, and we'll have a cookie exchange with hot cocoa afterwards. We'll have a children's moment in the service, as well as a craft afterwards for the kids as well. We invite you to bring your favorite cookies to share with others, and, um, um, invite family and friends to attend with you. Again, that's 7:30 PM on Christmas Eve. And then during the 12 Days of Christmas, that time between Christmas and Epiphany, we will have the opportunity to gather in people's homes once again, each day to celebrate our community and get to know each other better. From Christmas teas, potlucks, to game night and movie night, we'll have fun together and find new connections. You can sign up through our e-news. There's links on the back of your bulletin that will bring you to our e-news, um, so that you can register. And then on New Year's, we'll have our annual New Year's Retreat at Camp Indianola. You can sign up, uh, uh, in the e-news as well for that or talk to me afterwards and I can help you get connected to the coordinators for each of these different opportunities. We do invite you to, uh, take some Advent flyers with you. We still have many of those available. Uh, those are some small flyers on the back, um, in the Narthex on our name tag table. Take those, put those up in your apartment buildings, condo buildings, uh, places of work, other community gathering spaces, coffee shops, so that we can invite, um, as many people as we can to come and share in the love, uh, that we will experience on Christmas Eve. And now, I will invite up Jane to give us an announcement.

**Jane:**
Hello, First Church. Um, I am here as part of, um, the Staff Parish Relations Committee to share a letter that announces the interim leadership, um, for our church over the next, uh, six months. Uh, one reminder, this will come from, uh, our Superintendent Shalom Aucktrop, who is a member of our superintendency team. So we have three superintendents, and, uh, this is from, uh, Reverend Shalom. Dear members and friends of First Church United Methodist Church Seattle, grace and peace in the name of the one who arrives again this season, the incarnate Christ who brings hope and power. I write to share with you that Bishop Cedric Bridgeforth intends to appoint the Reverend Elizabeth Schindler as your interim lead pastor, and Reverend Kathy Morse as interim pastor for congregational care at Seattle First United Methodist Church. So, class. Reverend Schindler is already familiar to you as superintendent, but before taking on this role in July, as superintendent, Pastor Elizabeth served as lead pastor for eight years in Samamish and for four years at Brown's Point UMC in Tacoma. She also serves on the board of the Westpath Benefits and Investments as the chair of the UMC Principals Committee and teaches preschool every Thursday. Pastor Elizabeth has gifts in worship leadership, church administration that will help ready First Church for robust ministry ahead. Reverend Morse is an active member of our conference who has answered the call to serve at least five times since entering retirement. She has faithfully served PMW churches from Vashon to Kennydale and, uh, also served on the faculty of the School of Theology and Ministry at Seattle University. Pastor Kathy is excited about the focus on congregational care as she exercises her gifts of connection and support. Her email signature quotes Dag Hammerskjold. For all has been, thank you. For all that is to come, yes. This captures her commitment to the work and excitement to serve at First Church. We have already begun working with the Staff Parish Relations Committee and trust that those members who will continue to assist our Superintendency Team and you, the congregation, in navigating the appointment process for your next appointed pastor in July. While Reverend Schindler serves as pastor here, I, Shalom, will serve as your superintendent for the interim period. This congregation has experienced grief in the in Pastor Wan G's departure, and we are hopeful for grace-filled accompaniment as you choose to live into the mission of our liberating God in the neighborhoods of downtown Seattle. Our Superintendency Team continues in prayer with First Church and for Reverend Elizabeth and Kathy as each of you prepares for this transitional period on the road for something new. Thanks be to God. In Christ, Reverend Shalom Aucktrap, Superintendent C-Tac Misional District. So there's the announcement. Um, I'm glad that you were clapping. That's great, and I know that, uh, Pastor Elizabeth will be happy about that too, and Kathy. Um, we know that change is hard, and it involves loss and, um, and gains. And in this case, our gain is the gifts of this, this pastoral team. We'll have Pastor Elizabeth, Pastor Kathy, and Pastor Jackie will continue in her role. And so this team will work together to lead us. I've never gotten so much applause during an announcement before. Um, they'll work together. They will clarify roles and responsibilities. So if you're wondering, who will I go to for what, I don't know yet, but we will, and we'll, we'll make that clear to all y'all. Um, some next steps in terms of dates. Elizabeth will start on January 2nd, and she'll preach her first, uh, Sunday Epiphany Sunday, January 4th. So, come back. Um, Pastor Jack, Pastor Jackie will start on January 18th. And then, um, as we said in the letter, the cabinet will be working on our long-term appointment, and that will be announced sometime in the spring for a July start. So, thank you for your flexibility. If you have questions, the, um, the Staff Parish Relations Committee, who I've, uh, introduced before, but will again. Uh, Christina Gonzalez, Carey Lee, Candy Bonam, and Nancy Sheretz, there you go. Um, oh, there she is. As the chair for the Church Council. So, uh, uh, talk to us, ask us questions. We'll do what we can. Thank you very much. Thank you, Jane.

### Choral Postlude: "Chiquirriquitín" (Andalucian)

Sanctuary Choir and instrumentalists; Elisabeth Ellis, Director