---
date: 2025-07-20
title: 6th Sunday after Pentecost
preacher: Rev. Dan Wolpert
sermon_title: Can We Imagine?
scripture:
  - Exodus 16:13-21
  - Matthew 6:19-21
---
## Gathering
[02:48]
### Prelude: "Immortal, Invisible, God Only Wise" — Elisabeth Ellis, pianist

**Pastor Peter:**
Please rise in body and or spirit and join together with me in the call to worship. Let the cries of the victims of injustice come before you.

**Congregation:** According to your great power, break the bonds of oppression.

**Pastor Peter:**
Let all that has been garnered through greed be returned in full measure.

**Congregation:** Then we, your people, will give thanks to you forever. From generation to generation, we will abandon ourselves into your hands with grace-filled, open hearts.

**Pastor Peter:**
Please remain standing and join in our opening hymn, "Lord Whose Love in Humble Service", which is number 581 in the red hymnal.

### Opening Hymn: "Lord, Whose Love in Humble Service" — UMH #581
Lord, whose love in humble service,
Bears with us who fail and fall,
Yet whose goodness ever calls us
All to rise and love our call,
As your children, we would honor
The great vision of your heart,
Wanting daily to live nearer,
Giving thanks for all you are.

To the children on the corners,
To the lonely and the lost,
To the hungry and the hated,
To the weary and the tossed,
As your followers, we would love you,
Giving freely of our own,
Help us, Lord, to rise and meet you,
For your heart is found alone.

As we worship, as we’re waiting,
Give us strength, Lord, to obey.
May our lives be ever praising,
As we live and work and pray.
Give us thankful hearts to serve you,
Give us eyes to truly see,
For in loving, we have found you,
All for Christ, and Christ for Thee.

**Pastor Peter:**
That we may be servants of God, freed to live in mercy. We commit ourselves to being people of peace in a world that is just is not just. Just, increasingly not just. So let us greet one another with signs of peace now. And if you prefer a touchless greeting, you can place your hand over your heart to signal that. Here are the words of Jesus. "Peace I leave with you, my peace I give to you. The peace of Christ is ours through the Holy Spirit who dwells within us. The peace of Christ be with you."

**Congregation:** And also with you.

**Pastor Jackie:**
Good morning, First Church. I am Pastor Jackie. I'm the associate pastor for congregational and community engagement here at First Church and my pronouns are she and her. We are so glad that you are worshiping with us today, whether you're joining us online or here in person. We especially welcome those of you who are new to our community. This is a place to explore your spirituality and to bring your questions. We assure you that we don't have all the answers, but together we ask the hard questions and confront the troubles and injustices that we see in the world. And with God's help, we use our collective voices and our collective energy to bring change.

At this time, I invite you to fill out your connection card. We've got several different versions available to you. Um, you can use whichever one works best. Uh, we have a digital version that you can get to through our QR code. Um, we have the slide for that. There we go. Uh, that's the QR code that will bring you to the digital connection card. There is also, um, a spot on the back that says "connect with us" on the back of your bulletin. Uh, you can get to the digital bulletin that way as well as the connect digital connection card.

Um, if you are here in the sanctuary, there's a paper copy that is in your bulletin. There's also paper copies throughout the pews. Uh, feel free to fill out that version as well. You can drop those in the offering plate as it goes by later, or you can bring them back to myself or Pastor One G at the end of the service. We'll be at those big double doors in the back. We also have a digital form for name tags. Anyone can get a name tag and we encourage everyone to wear your name tags. Um, just go ahead and fill out that digital form uh that you can get to through that QR code. We also have hearing assist devices available. Those can be found at the colorful set of little boxes that are at the back to my right at the bottom of the staircase that leads up to the balcony. Uh, we just ask that you please turn it off at the end of the service and place it back into those boxes.

We also have children's worship bags available, a colorful set of bags that are to my left on top of the book small bookcase in the back. Um, we love having children in worship and it's a great way for children to be able to participate in the worship service as well. And just return those at the end of the service as well. And now, I will invite up Peter to lead us in our land acknowledgment.

**Pastor Peter:**
Please join in unity as we acknowledge the sacred lands on which we are now situated.

**Congregation:** We acknowledge that we are situated on the traditional homelands of the Duwamish, the first people of Seattle. We honor and respect members of the Duwamish tribe, past and present, as well as the land and waters we share. May we live consciously and respectfully with one another, mindful of the sacredness of all God's creation.

**Pastor Peter:**
And now let us take a moment to center ourselves for worship together as we light our community candle.

**Pastor Peter:**
Whoever you are, wherever you find yourself today, across the spectrum of human existence, sexuality, gender, identity, ability, or privilege, in a world full of questions, doubts, and a climate in crisis. May this community be a place of companionship and healing for you. There is nothing that can separate us from God's all-embracing love. Christ invites you, Christ invites us, to find him in worship and celebration today.

### Special Music: "For the Beauty of the Earth" — Ibidunni Ojikutu and Tess Altiveros, soloists; Elisabeth Ellis, pianist
For the beauty of the earth,
For the beauty of the skies,
For the love which from our birth,
Over and around us lies.
Lord of all, to Thee we raise,
This, our joyful hymn of praise.

For the beauty of each hour,
Of the day and of the night,
Hill and vale, and tree and flower,
Sun and moon and stars of light.
Lord of all, to Thee we raise,
This, our joyful hymn of praise.

For the joy of human love,
Brother, sister, parent, child,
Friends on earth, and friends above,
For all gentle thoughts and mild.
Lord of all, to Thee we raise,
This, our joyful hymn of praise.

For each perfect gift of Thine,
To our race so freely given,
Graces human and divine,
Flows of earth and buds of heaven.
Lord of all, to Thee we raise,
This, our joyful hymn of praise.

Lord of all, to Thee we raise,
This, our joyful hymn of praise.

**Barbara Moreland:**
Good morning. In June, along with Pastor Wanji and Pastor Jackie, and the other lay delegate April Little, I attended the Pacific Northwest Annual Conference at Bothell United Methodist Church. Now, this was April's first time at annual conference, but I've been going to annual conferences for about 20 years. When I started attending, we met in a big convention center because that was what was needed for all of the people who were required to be there. We had paper ballots for every report and every act of business that needed a vote. And now, and and those results, getting those results seemed like it took forever cause somebody had to go off in a corner and count them all. But now, thanks in part to COVID, we have hundreds of people, some of them in person and some of them online, voting on their phones and laptops, and we get results almost instantly. Times have definitely changed, but some things stay the same. And one of the things that stays the same is connections.

There's two kinds of connections that happen at conference. The first is people. I've been going there for so long that some people I see year after year. And uh on the first day of conference this year, a woman came up to me and said, "Oh, Barbara, I was just thinking about the time that you spoke to our women's group." And I said, "Yes, I remember." And then we talked for a few more minutes and decided it had been either 14 years or 16 years since that happened. Um, and we I also get to connect with former First Church pastors and other people that have worked their way through First Church on their way to somewhere else. Um, I get to hear about their families and bring them up to date on what's happening here. And as we connect in the moment at conference, incredible things happen in worship services. This year, we had an amazing youth choir from Canada, who led us in one of the services and they were completely amazing. And for anyone who has not heard our Bishop Bridgeforth preach, let me just go on record with no disrespect to the current people in the room, that he is most the most inspiring speaker I have ever heard. And his his sermon to open the conference was just that, inspiring.

So these intense moving connections between people are worth it because conference is also three days of hard, tedious, intensive work. Because the second kind of connection is, of course, doing Methodism. We are an organization built on connections. We work not only with members of our local community, but then our district, and then our people in the greater Northwest area, and eventually around the world. At this 2025 gathering, we voted on how the Methodist worldwide Methodist Church might function in the future. We carefully considered resolutions brought forward from the delegates to the worldwide General Convention back in 2024 that could change how we do Methodism. One of the four amendments into the Constitution adds specific language about our commitment to openness to individuals of all physical abilities. Another adds a commitment to eradicating racism in all forms directly into our Constitution. And another one has to do with how delegates to the General Conference are chosen.

Perhaps the most interesting one is uh about regionalization regionalization. That's a hard word to say. Which would empower churches within a local district to alter their programs in a way that it is most effective for the context in which they are functioning. Excuse me. But we won't know if any of these resolutions pass until every annual conference in Methodism anywhere has voted on them. But if the resolutions pass, Methodism will be changed again. And you will have been a part of this movement toward inclusiveness and mission. Because we are a church of connections.

Now, the 2025 conference had a was kind of interesting because of these, um, but not everything is interesting. Anybody who's been to conference knows that. Conference means giving up three days of your life to drive somewhere hopefully, but not guaranteed to be in Western Washington, to listen to details on financial stuff and legal stuff, and to hear reports from every official group. It means standing in line for meals and for bathrooms. But I am one of your properly elected representatives to the Pacific Northwest Annual Conference for next year. And I will be there, building connections and trying to be a good Methodist. And I thank you for granting me that opportunity. Thanks.

**Rev. Jackie:**
Barbara, would you continue to stay up here as our lay reader? We are deeply grateful and delighted at First Church youth will be participating in a summer service experience with our greater Northwest Northwest area and a collaborative trip with partners in SLAM, students learning about mission. It will be held at the Yakama Reservation in Central Washington. This is a decolonized mission trip. It's native led. It focuses on balance of relationships, of growing learning, and service with Yakama elders and community members. Thank you, Pastor Jackie, for all the work she's done pre-trip, so that our youth can be equipped for cultural learning, telling the truth of the Methodist Church's impact as missionaries in the greater North area and growing in honest, uh, authentic relationships with our native siblings.

Uh, both Pastor Jackie and April and myself have all participated in experiences at the Yakama Reservation in Central Washington. So we trust that the spirit's movement to bring about wholeness and oneness for all God's people into the next generation, that they we can be all compassionate people serving in what I understand as the Hebrew word for God's covenant with us, hesed, is a relationship of loving, uh, one another with love, justice, and peace at God's heart. So as we prepare, let us, um, surround, gonna I guess Pastor Michael will come up. And there are different gifts, but the same spirit that gives them. There are many ways to serve God, but the same one who calls us uniquely is served. Each one of us is given gifts by the Spirit to use for the common good. Together we are the body of Christ, and individually we are members of that body.

Church, I present to you those whom God has called to represent our congregation on this SLAM trip. Aliyah, Larry, Laurie, April, and Pastor Jackie. We trust this SLAM trip is an important gift and you will experience grace in and through relationships with God, neighbor, self, and all of creation.

**Rev. Jackie:**
I invite all of us to stretch out your arms, um, with our hearts, bodies, and spirit, uh, to commission and bless our, um, youth and our leaders, April and Pastor Jackie, heading out this evening, this afternoon. Um, the prayer should be on the okay, there we go. Let us share in one voice and one heart.

**Congregation:** God of steadfast love, empower your beloveds with the opening of their hearts, minds, bodies, and spirits, connecting with all of who they are in the present moment, as they are sent forth for relationships of deeper belonging, to deepening of truths in you, Holy One, and with one another and with all of creation, all sacred and holy, created in your image. May they become the people you continue to yearn for, desiring their, our, and all people's creations' wholeness and wellness together. Fill Pastor Jackie, April, Aliyah, Lori, with the Holy Spirit and enable them to give and to receive, not transactionally, and relationally. All that you invite them into faithfully and joyfully. Bring them humbly home with love that continues to beget love. Love that is not separate from justice and peace. May their understanding of the universal love of the cosmic Christ be evermore expansive, full of mystery, tender in wisdom, and in the words of the poet now gone before us, Andrea Gibson, may their hearts return with stretch marks. Go in peace, and we turn in peace we pray. Amen.

**Rev. Jackie:**
And they are required to bring a journal. Um, there are journals where you can either draw the picture or write the words. And when they return, they will share their experience with us. So, go in peace, return in peace. Amen.

## PROCLAIMING
[31:31]
**Pastor Peter:**
I invite you now into a time of prayer. I invite you to still your minds and quiet your hearts. And sense into the connection between us and our connection to the Earth. This connectedness is the spirit of the divine creator that lives among us and within us. For our prayer this morning, I offer words from Stephen Charleston, retired Episcopal Bishop of Alaska, and citizen of the Choctaw Nation.

**Pastor Peter:**
Now is the moment for which a lifetime of faith has prepared you. All of those years of prayer and study, all of the worship services, all of the time devoted to a community of faith, it all comes down to this. This sorrowful moment when life seems chaotic and the anarchy of fear haunts the thin borders of reason. Your faith has prepared you for this. It has given you the tools you need to respond, to proclaim justice while standing for peace. Long ago the Spirit called you to commit your life to faith. Now you know why. You are a source of strength for those who have lost hope. You are a voice of calm in the midst of chaos. You are a steady light in the days of darkness. The time has come to be what you believe. We will not give up, go away, or be quiet. We will remain here, standing in the way of the victory parade, spoiling the photo op, embarrassing the guests at the penthouse party. We will continue to resist repression. We will not allow a return to a culture of closets. We will not pretend there is no threat to the Earth. We do not think we have all the answers, but we will never stop asking the questions. We are the quiet people of the center, the struggling people of the margins, the survivors from the bottom rung. We are the new community of faith, unified by a shared vision of human dignity, strengthened by a belief in the power of love. Until history moves toward justice, we will not give up, go away, or be quiet. And may the sustaining, empowering, eternally loving Spirit of the risen one make it so with us. Amen.

**Congregation:** Amen.

### Prayers of the People: "Seek Ye First (vs 1)" — UMH #405
Seek ye first the kingdom of God
And God's righteousness;
And all these things shall be added unto you.
Allelu, Alleluia

**Barbara Moreland:**
Good morning, First Church. This morning's Old Testament reading is from Exodus 16, verses 13 to 21. In the evening, quails came up and covered the camp. And in the morning, there was a layer of dew around the camp. When the layer of dew lifted, there on the surface of the wilderness was a fine, flaky substance. As fine as frost on the ground. When the Israelites saw it, they said to one another, "What is it?" For they did not know what it was. Moses said to them, "It is the bread that the Lord has given you to eat. This is what the Lord has commanded. Gather as much of it as each of you needs. An omer per person, according to the number of persons, all providing for those in their own tents." The Israelites did so, some gathering more, some less. But when they measured it with an omer, those who had gathered much had nothing over. And those who gathered little had no shortage. They gathered as much as each of them needed. And Moses said to them, "Let no one leave any of it over until morning." But they did not listen to Moses. Some of some left part of it until morning, and it became wormy and rotten. And Moses was angry with them. Morning by morning, they gathered it as much as each needed, but when the sun grew hot, it melted.

**Wally Shaffer:**
And the Gospel reading this morning is from the Book of Matthew, chapter 6, verses 19 to 21. Do not store up for yourselves treasures on Earth, where moth and dust consume, and where thieves break in and steal. But store up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust consumes, and where thieves do not break in and steal. For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also. This is the word of life.

**Congregation:** Thanks be to God.

## Sermon: Can We Imagine?
**Preacher:** Rev. Dan Wolpert
**Scripture:** Exodus 16:13-21, Matthew 6:19-21

**Rev. Dan Wolpert:**
Good morning. Will you please pray with me. Amen. Well, thank you for having me again. Four-part series hasn't been canceled yet, so I appreciate that. So part three. Part three, we are looking at the sets of practices that are both about our inward spiritual life and then about social transformation. And, you know, the first two sets of things, I think are things that uh, most of us have heard of or can relate to, right? Let's focus our spiritual life on God. Okay, you know that sounds great. I've heard that before. Uh, being compassionate and present to one another. Okay, yeah, that's great. I can kind of get behind that occasionally anyway. This set I really feel like is the, both the real crux of the matter and the most difficult. Okay, so we're, we're increasing in difficulty as we're going along.

And I think that we need to always remember, right, what is the point? What is the point of all of this? Right, so what is the point? The point is that we are trying to think about what sort of world we would like to wake up to in the morning. Right, what sort of world we would like to wake up to. I want you to try to imagine waking up one morning, and the headline reads, "Nobody starved to death anywhere in the world today." Or perhaps we might imagine waking up and we read, "Nobody was bombed today." Or perhaps we would get in our car and we would drive around the city, and we would see that there is nobody living on the sidewalk today. And that kind of world would go on and on and on day in and day out. Now I'm just speaking here for myself, that's the kind of world I want to wake up to. That's the kind of world that I never wake up to. And when we bring these kinds of things up to people, the response is very similar to the response when we get when we want to change something in church, we just say, "Well, that's not possible. We've never done anything like that. This is just the way that it is."

This is just the way human beings are. This is just the way society is. And of course, there is a certain truth to that because this is the way society always has been. Right? And so we have to ask ourselves, what is it that is going on in our social relations in terms of how we're relating to each other around resources, and how we order our life together that is creating this suffering that simply goes on and on and on. And can indeed we imagine something different and what would that require? So this set of practices is about our economic relations. And we have these two great scripture stories, the second one from the Gospel really is mimicking the first one, echoing the first one. And God says what seems like a very simple thing. There will be food available for you in the morning. Take as much as you and your family needs. Eat that. Don't take any extra or save any for the next day. I mean, they didn't ask to build a spaceship to the moon.

They didn't say make a nuclear collider. Just take what you need, eat it. And in one of the great recurring lines from the Book of Exodus, "And the people did not listen to Moses." Moses, the least listened to spiritual leader until Jesus, who we listen to even less than we listen to Moses. Right, so what is going on, you see, in people's minds, they get the food, they're in the desert, and what are they thinking about? What happens if there's none tomorrow? What happens if the manna doesn't show up tomorrow? What happens if the Amazon delivery truck doesn't bring the quail tomorrow? We're going to starve. We're all going to die. I'm going to die. And you know, I bet those people over there kept an extra portion for themselves anyway. So I'm just going to take a little bit more. Moses was just kidding. And of course they wake up in the morning and it's rotten and there is more. Right? The basic thing that starts to happen in terms of our social relationships with resources, right? Because this is a story about resources. It's a story about food, could be a story about shelter, could be a story about water.

The basic thing that starts to happen in our social arrangements is that people decide that they need to try to accumulate. Right? Human society is a zero-sum game. If I don't get more, I'll get less. If that person gets more than me, I got to take some from them. And besides, I need something bigger, better, right? Bigger house, bigger castle. An extra horse or two. Right? And so every society sets up some sort of economic system of extraction. Right? I I would actually recommend it'd be very interesting collectively for your psyche that you rewrite that land acknowledgment at the beginning of your service. We do not share this land. We stole this land. We stole your stuff and we're not giving it back. And now we're going to pretend that we're being respectful. Amen. So I would recommend that you say that every week. Right? This is the, this is the thing about our imperial relationships with economics.

Right? Is that there is this extractive process that starts to happen. And the only way that some people can have more is if some people do not have enough. Right? That's the only way that that can happen. And so there is this great upward flow, those of you who remember Ross Perot, the giant sucking sound, right? There's this giant upward flow of resources that happens. And it happens over and over and over again, and the people at the top never have a sense that they have enough. There's never enough, because the person next door always has a slightly bigger thing. Deborah and I went, uh, kayaking last weekend up at Orcas Island, which was wonderful. Except the thing that we did not think about, we didn't really know about cause we've never been up there in the summer, is the boat scene. The boat scene. Which was just like, mind-blowing. I mean, we would be kayaking, you know, we're in our little boats, we're going along. We turn around, you know, we come to a bay, we turn around the island, and there parked in the bay is probably $20 million worth of yachts. I mean, 50-foot, 60-foot, 20-foot, 40-foot. And I'm thinking to myself, you know, I grew up in Los Angeles, I knew some people that had boats. And the kinds of cabin cruisers that were fancy boats when I was going back, this would now be the kind of boat you would hang on the back of one of these boats. Right? Right? Unbelievable amount of wealth. Right? Just extracted, extracted, extracted, extracted.

And so this general process that is driven by this fear of enough, this ego need for accumulation is continually driving both individuals, but more importantly, collective groups. And the spiritual life says the only way to get to this Kingdom of God, the only way to get to this Kingdom of God is to reverse the flow. Right? We have to reverse the flow. If I take too much manna, Barbara doesn't get any manna. The only way to change that is for me to take less. You know, this is a thing I've always felt about money and economics. Accounting's addition and subtraction, like it's not difficult math. So not calculus, no differential equations. Like it's pretty simple. It's pretty simple. So what, what people in every tradition, who are and people in every tradition have realized this. Right? This is not a unique teaching to our tradition at all. Every single spiritual tradition has figured this out, because math is addition and subtraction is pretty easy. Right? And what God is interested in, you see, God is interested in that condition that is outlined there in that story. Everybody gets enough. Now remember in that story, some people got more, because they had a bigger family, they needed some more. So they got more. Some people got less. It's only one person in that tent. They didn't need as much. But everybody got enough. They weren't starving. Right? So communities that have developed around these habits and practices have taken very intentional vows, have have really tried to orient themselves, so that they can reverse this desire to take more, that they can reverse and work on this fear. Right? That is always wanting us to grab more.

And when we have more than we need, then we begin to recognize that. We say, "Oh, I have more than I need." Like, okay, so let's let's get rid of some. Let's give some away. Every single day in our supermarkets, we throw away food that has expired. Third of the food produced in America gets thrown out. A third. Right? Next time you're driving by some, you know, huge field, hundreds and hundreds of acres. I want you to think about that. A third of that food is going to get thrown away in a society where there are hungry people, and in a world where there are starving people. That's weird. Nothing else seems like a waste of farming energy, you know, right? So what if we just said, if you need food, just go into a supermarket and just grab some food. Right? So it completely upends our entire economic thinking, our entire economic practice. But the reality is, there's too much food in that supermarket because they throw all of it out, all that they throw out every day. So let's just give some to let's just give it to people can get it. Right? So the thing is that in any given community, so church, community, but any given community, people can start to practice this form of alternative economic system. It's important to recognize that the spiritual life is an alternative economic system. And since most churches in America are full of people who are of the more powerful social class, and more powerful privileged group, the practice is going to be about, how can we reverse that flow? How can we look at the too much that we have and begin to practice getting rid of that, making sure that other people have enough? Right? And the good news here in all of this, right? Is that when people do that, it works. That's the very simple good news. Like it works.

One of the stories that I like to tell, but it's interesting to watch people's reactions cause it's just like I haven't even said anything. Like it's just so bizarre, it kind of goes right by everybody's mind very quickly. Deborah and I have partnered a number of different endeavors over the years and one of the things I like to talk about is that when we lived in Vermont and created a health center, we solved the health care crisis in our country. Now not for the whole country, just for our little place. What do I mean by that? What I mean by that is that we created a health center that was accessible to anybody that needed health care. And we didn't deal with insurance companies. We just set our rates so that anybody could come and pay and afford to go there. Now what did that mean for us? Well it meant we weren't rich, cause most people aren't rich. Right? And so people could get health care, but were we dying? No, we had enough. It worked. Everybody got health care, we got taken care of. What's the problem? Well, there was no extraction going on. But again, the point is that there was manna the next day. Right? The point is that when you are in community and there's all kinds of economic activity going on, well, maybe one day one person falls on hard times, so they get their needs taken care of by the community. Then one day a different person falls on hard times and that first person is able to give more. One of the challenges that I offer to churches is what if you said publicly and out loud and backed it up with the resources, what if a church said, "Any member of this church will not fall into destitution." Right? If you need something in terms of your basic needs, if you need a place to stay, if you need some food, if you need some clothes, if you need some health care, we will make sure that you get that.

It'd be incredibly radical thing for a church to do. But it would be a practice of this alternative way of being in the world. It would take this extraction impulse and reverse it. And so when Jesus says to the person, "Don't accumulate." He's not saying that because he then says, "You will therefore have nothing." He's saying, "No, you don't have to do that because in my creation, in my Kingdom, there is enough. And if we all share that, we will always all have enough." We would be able to wake up to a world where nobody was living on the street, where nobody was starving, where nobody was being bombed, where nobody was destitute because somebody else living right next door to them had too much. It's all doable. God has laid it out. God has given us this bounty. We just need to practice. That's all. Just don't take more than you need. Listen to Moses. Amen.

### Doxology: "Praise God, from Whom All Blessings Flow" — UMH #95
Praise God, from whom all blessings flow; praise God, all creatures here below;
praise God above, ye heavenly host; Creator, Christ, and Holy Ghost. Amen.

### Prayer of Dedication (enfleshed)
**Rev. Wongee Joh:**
Imagine a new heaven, it's easy if you try. No hell below us. Above us, only sky. Imagine all the people living for today. Imagine there's no countries, it isn't hard to do. Nothing to kill or die for, and no religion too. Imagine all the people living life in peace. You may say I'm a dreamer, but I'm not the only one. I hope someday you'll join us, and the world will live as one. Imagine no possessions, I wonder if you can. No need for greed or hunger, a brotherhood of man. Imagine all the people sharing all the world. You may say I'm a dreamer, but I'm not the only one. I hope someday you'll join us, and the world will live as one. You may say I'm a dreamer, but I'm not the only one. I hope someday you'll join us, and the world will live as one.

**Rev. Dan Wolpert:**
As people of God's imagination, let us share in the prayer of dedication.

**Congregation:** We dedicate our offerings to your works and your contemplation, O Steadfast Hope. May our care for one another and our spiritual practices expand out in the world, weaving widely and expansive ways of life. Amen.

**Rev. Dan Wolpert:**
Let us be seated.

## Responding
[72:08]
**Rev. Dan Wolpert:**
Friends online and watching on YouTube later, God is both present here and now and beyond time and space, beyond our imaginations. If you have not prepared enough solid or enough liquid, please go ahead and prepare some to celebrate with us. This is Christ's table. All are welcome here and all means all. You need not be a member of the United Methodist Church. You need not be baptized or a certain age. We cannot possibly imagine God's enoughness for us. Come trusting that nothing, no matter what we have done or did not do, can separate us from this unimaginable enoughness of God's love in this life and the life to come. Come desiring this scandalous abundance that we can practice into. The bread of enough. The cup that overfloweth. The Lord be with you.

**Congregation:** And also with you.

**Rev. Dan Wolpert:**
Lift up your hearts.

**Congregation:** We lift them up to God.

**Rev. Dan Wolpert:**
Let us give thanks to the Lord our God.

**Congregation:** It is right to give our thanks and praise.

**Rev. Dan Wolpert:**
It is right and good and a joyful thing, always and everywhere to give thanks to you. Almighty God, creator of heaven and Earth. From the rising of the sun to its setting, your name is praised among all peoples. And so, with your people on Earth and all the company of heaven, we praise your name and join in their unending hymn.

**Congregation:** Holy, holy, holy Lord, God of power and might. Heaven and Earth are full of your glory. Hosanna in the highest. Blessed is the one who comes in the name of the Lord. Hosanna in the highest.

**Rev. Dan Wolpert:**
You are holy, Almighty One. Blessed are you, Jesus Christ. In the power of the Spirit you created all things, bless them, and called them good. You called to yourself a people to make your mercy and truth known in all this world. We betrayed your calling. You were faithful. We wandered from the way. You called us to return. Return. And let us home. And still we turned away from your ways of bruised your creatures and made ourselves slaves to sin and death and extractions. At the right time you came and dwelled among us as one of us, bringing good news to the poor, healing the sick, raising the dead, sharing table with the unrighteous, and teaching the way of enough enoughness that leads to life. By your incarnation, life, suffering and execution, and resurrection, you gave birth to your Church, delivered us from slavery, and made a new covenant with us by water and the Spirit.

On the night in which he gave himself up for us, Jesus took bread, gave thanks, broke it, gave it to his disciples and said, "Take and eat, this is my body, which is given for you, do this remembering me." When supper was over, he took the cup, gave thanks to you, gave it to his disciples and said, "Drink from this, all of you, for this is my blood of the new covenant poured out for you and for the many for the forgiveness of sins. Do this as often as you drink it in remembrance of me." And so it is, in remembrance of these, your mighty acts in Jesus Christ. We offer ourselves in praise and thanksgiving, as a holy and living sacrifice, in union with Christ's offering for us, as we proclaim the mystery of faith.

**Congregation:** Christ has died. Christ has risen. Christ will come again.

**Rev. Dan Wolpert:**
Pour out your Holy Spirit on us gathered here, and on these gifts of enough bread, enough wine. Make them be for us the body and blood of Christ that we may be enoughness for the world, the body and blood of Christ, redeemed by his blood and empowered by the gifts of the Holy Spirit. By your Spirit make us one with Christ, one with each other and one in ministry to all the world, showing forth the fruit of the Spirit until Christ comes in final victory, and we feast at his heavenly banquet. Through your Son Jesus Christ, with the Holy Spirit and Holy Church, all honor and glory is yours, Almighty God, now and forever. Amen. You are enough. All are welcome here. Please come two lines down the middle here. Uh, we have gluten-free bread. Uh, we have individual cups if you would prefer to take individual cups, please face in the side containers there. Um, if you would like to refrain from the elements and receive a blessing, Pastor Jackie and myself would be on either side. If you would come forward your hands over your heart. And if you need the elements brought to you, please uh, a friendly uh, hand wave, and we would love to bring it to you. Come to the table this morning.

## Sending Forth
[82:53]
**Rev. Dan Wolpert:**
And now let us go forth from this place and embrace the upside down economics of God's Kingdom. And as we do so, may we find an abundance that is as amazing as it is surprising. And now may the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, the love of God, and the outrageous power of God's Holy Spirit may it be with each and every one of us, now and forevermore, as all God's people said.

**Congregation:** Amen.