---
date: 2025-08-24
title: Worship Service
preacher: Rev. Dan Wolpert
sermon_title: How Do We Know?
scripture:
  - Matthew 7:15-23
  - Hebrews 11: 13-16
---
# Worship Service

## Gathering
[03:12]
### Prelude: "When Peace Like a River" — arr. by Elisabeth Ellis, pianist

### Call to Worship
**Leader:** Let all people listen and heed.
**Congregation:** We are all called to live with integrity and justice.
**Leader:** God will guide anyone.
**Congregation:** As long as we open our hearts to his song.
**Leader:** So let us abandon ourselves into the heart of love.
**Congregation:** Love's grace abides wherever we are. In love let us make our home.

### Opening Hymn: "Guide My Feet" — TFWS #2208
Will you come and follow me, if I but call your name?
Will you go where you don't know and never be the same?
Will you let My love be shown, will you let My name be known,
Will you let My life be grown in you and you in Me?

Will you leave yourself behind if I but call your name?
Will you bear the cross of pain and never be the same?
Will you let My love be shown, will you let My name be known,
Will you let My life be grown in you and you in Me?

Will you love the "you" you hide if I but call your name?
Will you speak the words I provide and never be the same?
Will you let My love be shown, will you let My name be known,
Will you let My life be grown in you and you in Me?

Will you love the "you" you hide if I but call your name?
Will you speak the words I provide and never be the same?
Will you let My love be shown, will you let My name be known,
Will you let My life be grown in you and you in Me?

### Passing of the Peace
**Pastor Claire:** The peace of Christ be with you.
**Congregation:** And also with you!

### Welcome and Announcements

### Land Acknowledgement
**Congregation:** We acknowledge that we are situated on the traditional homelands of the Duwamish, the first people of Seattle. We honor and respect members of the Duwamish tribe, past and present, as well as the land and waters we share. May we live consciously and respectfully with one another, mindful of the sacredness of all God's creation.

### Lighting the Community Candle
Whoever you are, wherever you find yourself today, across the spectrum of human existence, sexuality, gender, identity, ability, or privilege; in a world full of questions, doubts, and a climate in crisis; may this community be a place of companionship and healing for you. There is nothing that can separate us from God's all-embracing love. Christ invites you – Christ invites us – to find him in worship and celebration today.

### Special Music: "I Believe" — Mark Miller
Sanctuary Choir; Elisabeth Ellis, pianist and director
I believe in the sun even when it's not shining.
I believe in the sun even when it's not shining.
I believe in love even when I don't feel it.
I believe in love even when I don't feel it.
I believe in God even when I'm [inaudible]
I believe in God even when I'm [inaudible]

### Prayers of the People
**Pastor Wan-G:** Gracious God, each of us are part of a larger whole. We're members of an extended family, residents of suburbs and cities, citizens and subjects of nations, and being created in your image diverse and beautiful, one part of your amazing creation, the cosmos. By your spirit we are connected together. We bear witness, thank you, Peter, and through compassion we share a common joy and suffering. May we be mindful of the fullness of life's experience that which is ours and especially in this time of prayer, that which makes up our ordinary day-to-day existence of others. We pray for the suffering that comes from inhospitality manifested in prejudice, fear, codified unjust laws, targeted otherizing, misunderstandings and misinformations, destructive harm from all forms of constructed and systemic -isms, sexism, racism, white Christian nationalism, these sins that are interconnected and multilayered complex in ways that it need not be, and sinfully pervasive in ways that we are all caught in the web that can destroy us all. Hate begets hate. Open our hearts to your love, God of justice.

And with hearts open to compassion, we pray for the imbalance of power and wealth in our nation and our world, for the ongoing sins against humanity through imperialism, we pray. Spirit, call us anew, and our responses of hope and peace in the midst of darkness. We open our hearts for this gathered community to share in our joys and concerns for one another and with compassion, a with-ness, for we trust that when your people share our feelings, you hear and you listen with compassion. You are a with-ness with us. We pray with and for all who are feeling tired, dread, depressed, overwhelmed, challenged, frightened, energized, anxious, defeated, more than one feeling at the same time. Bear with-ness with and for us, mutual love that bears more love. With and for Peter, his father Norm, and his partner Judy, for Peter's friend Tim. Bear with-ness with and for us, mutual love that bears more love.

With and for Ann Morgan and Sam at Bayview who is homebound. Bear with-ness with and for us, mutual love that bears more love. With and for Dale and Tom and Kathy Gaylord. Bear with-ness with and for us, mutual love that bears more love. With and for Laurie and the people of Haiti and for people in the world at war and facing destruction. Bear with-ness with and for us, mutual love that bears more love. With and for Pastor Jackie and her extended families at the passing of their grandmother, beloved Lillian, and her beautiful gift and impact of love that continues to bear love eternally. And also as Pastor Jackie and family spend time apart of much deserved rest and renewal. Bear with-ness with and for us, mutual love that bears more love. With and for celebrations of wedding anniversaries, including Steve and Janet's 50th, Elizabeth and Devon's third, Joe and Joyce's 45th, Claire and Dave's 45th. Bear with-ness with and for us, mutual love that bears more love. With and for Curt, Ginger, and Barbara. Bear with-ness with and for us, mutual love that bears more love.

With and for all your beloveds in need of healing, home, belonging, security and safety, both financial and emotional, and rest. All deserving of these divine and human rights. Bear with-ness with and for us, mutual love that bears more love. With and for communities of advocacy, leaders, partnerships, collaborators working with mutual love for more mutual love as we stand in justice with and for our immigrant neighbors, with and for all taken unjustly by ice. We say out loud your beloved's name, Mohammad Zaheed Yousef, and his families, wife Melissa and friends, nations suffering, our trans and queer siblings, and diverse people in double jeopardy already and now even more targeted by hate and a systemic power in and through this administration. Bear with-ness with and for us, mutual love that bears more love.

We praise you, oh God, for all the ways that love and justice is bearing fruit for shared breakfast, and now the inclusion of enough-ness with and for Church of Mary Magdalene's mission and ministries with us, for celebration and the gift of music, an expression of love with and for you our God, our song, with and for one another through all the seasons of our lives, with and for those who cannot sing or their song's put under erasure, and the power of the spirit that still brings forth songs of love, justice, and peace. We praise you for all the ways we are with and for the poor, sharing all that we have with trust and non-scarcity. We praise you for the prophets among us, Dr. Cornel West, and with his with-ness in a time of monsters. We pray it is you, oh God, who gifts us with prophets for such a time as this. We praise you for being debt free in all the ways. You are a liberator that sets us both spiritually free and as we celebrate everyone's contributions towards First Church, mortgage debt free, free-ness.

With and for the seasons of creation as we remember our deepest connection of being your creatures, of your creation, with our siblings, moon and sun, and with all that lives under its gifts. And as we move forward into your future, guide us in ways that is always deeper love and justice, including how we steward our building uses and our garage too. Your abundance overfloweth, oh God of love, providing us with retreats for rest and connection. So many joys and concerns are named and unnamed. We pause with a moment of communal and mutual love, a silence here.

Bear with-ness with and for us, mutual love that bears more love. We pray in the name of Jesus, our healer, reconciler, peacemaker and bearer of the gift of amazing love that does not leave any of us in creation alone or to our own scarce means, and bless us in the abundance of your kingdom. We pray, imagining abundant means of love in and through ordinary, marginalized, liberative, faithful, courageous people running towards us with hospitality, the kind of ordinary bread, needed with love and of your kingdom, already here and still yet coming. May it be so. Amen.

## Proclaiming the Word
[02:05]
### Old Testament Reading: Hebrews 11: 13-16 (NRSVue)
All of these died in faith without having received the promises, but from a distance they saw and greeted them. They confessed that they were strangers and foreigners on the earth. For people who speak in this way make it clear that they are seeking a homeland. If they had been thinking of the land that they had left behind, they would have had opportunity to return. But as it is, they desire a better homeland, that is, a heavenly one. Therefore God is not ashamed to be called their God; indeed, he has prepared a city for them. This is the word of life.
**Congregation:** Thanks be to God.

### New Testament Reading: Matthew 7:15-23 (NRSVue)
Beware of false prophets who come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly are ravenous wolves. You will know them by their fruits. Are grapes gathered from thorns or figs from thistles? In the same way, every good tree bears good fruit, but the bad tree bears bad fruit. A good tree cannot bear bad fruit, nor can a bad tree bear good fruit. Every tree that does not bear good fruit will be cut down and thrown into the fire. Thus you will know them by their fruits.

Not everyone who says to me, ‘Lord, Lord,’ will enter the kingdom of heaven, but only the one who does the will of my Father in heaven. On that day many will say to me, ‘Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name, and cast out demons in your name, and do many mighty works in your name?’ Then I will declare to them, ‘I never knew you; go away from me, you who behave lawlessly.’ This is the word of life.
**Congregation:** Thanks be to God.

## Sermon: How Do We Know?
**Preacher:** Rev. Dan Wolpert
**Scripture:** Matthew 7:15-23
[29:21]
Good morning. Good morning.

Hello. Let's try that again. Good morning. Wow, you're all amplified suddenly. So, this is the end of the series. So thank you very much for to all of you for having me here. Thank you Pastor Wan-G for inviting me and having me here. I want to give a special shout out to Dr. Elizabeth. I really want to thank you for your music leadership and your desire to weave together different themes every time that I've been here and and for all of the beautiful singing and music that has happened.

So it's been, it's been wonderful to be here. I've really appreciated getting to know some of you a little bit and to be just in the presence of this community. So will you please pray with me. Amen.

So just to review, to review the purpose of this series, the purpose of the book that these practices come from is to look at how is it that we can engage the spiritual life for social transformation. What are the practices that individuals, but really more importantly communities can enter into to manifest what Jesus calls the kingdom of God.

And the practice for today is discernment, and one of the things that I had to do in this book, in almost every chapter, was to first talk about the ways in which Jesus's Sermon on the Mount and many of these scriptures and our faith in general, was changed over time from one that was oriented towards the earth to one that was oriented towards heaven.

And we hear that problem in both of these scriptures, which is why I want to bring this up as an introduction, right? As soon as we hear things like a heavenly homeland, because we've been hearing going to heaven and not going to hell for our whole lives and literally for hundreds of years, we immediately think, oh, this is, this is talking about the afterlife, going to heaven.

Uh well, it's actually not talking about that. Uh First of all, the people that wrote this, the people who, uh the book of Hebrews was talking to, uh they had no concept of going to heaven after you died. So that's the one way that we understand that this was really not what they could have been thinking about. And the other thing is that if we look at these different references to heavenly kingdoms throughout the Bible, including the last book of the Bible, where the heavenly kingdom literally comes down to earth, we recognize that this is not about a heavenly kingdom as in I am going to heaven, this is about a heavenly kingdom as in the kingdoms of earth functioning in a different way, functioning according to the way that God would have us function.

Right? So we are dealing with the question of how is it that the kingdoms of the earth, which is basically all of the great list of wonderful things that you talked about in your pastoral prayer, all of the problems that we are continually facing, the kingdoms of the earth, how is it that those can be different.

How is it that they can be kingdoms of justice and love and peace and care? Right, the swords beaten into plowshares. No kingdom has ever done that. Right? And of course, our kingdom, the American kingdom is the best at making swords of any kingdom in the history of the world.

So we certainly cannot be operating as the heavenly kingdom. Right? So the practice of discernment is really then looking at this question of how is it that we might know that we are following God's will. Right? And this particular scripture passage from the Sermon on the Mount really is the starting point for discernment practice, and these people who are confused in this passage should really give us pause because of course, these people are not, you know, bad atheists.

Right? Or bad pagans. They say, we, you know, we thought we were all doing the right thing. Right? We were we were professing your name, we were doing all this great stuff. We thought we were doing the right thing. And yet Jesus says, you are behaving lawlessly. Some translations says evil doers.

But the Greek word here literally does mean without law. And that should make us think for a minute here because of course, so much of the New Testament and so much of what Christianity is about is discussing this whole issue of should we be following this old law, what is the new law? You know, who is Jesus, how do we relate to the issue of law and behavior. And so it's sort of sounds a little funny to say you are behaving lawlessly. My Lutheran friends, their their heads would be exploding, right? You know, this is this sounds like works righteousness. I thought we could just have faith, we didn't need law anymore, right? So, so what is it that is being referred to? And how is it that these people who all think that they are doing good things, who are trying to do good things, how is it that they are behaving lawlessly.

And this gets at the heart of what discernment is about. You see, because in order to do discernment, we have to start with one very basic premise. And the very basic premise is that God is actually real. And is actually doing things in the world. And you see, the kingdoms of the world and the way that we as human beings are trained in terms of our ego structure is that God is not actually real. Right? We are the center of the universe. We are our own gods. And God is actually just this projection of our own sense of self.

And so when we do that, what what happens is that we mistake the order of creation where God is the creator and we are the creature, we now become the creator and God is our little creature. Who always agrees with us, who likes the same people we like, who hates the same people we hate. Nice little God, you're doing a good job, validating me. And this is the lawlessness that Jesus is talking about here. That we have disordered the fundamental order and reality of creation. And discernment starts with the admission that we are creatures.

And in our basic state of confusion, we actually do not know what God is up to. We do not know what God is up to. And that is very disorienting. Because of course, like these people in scripture, I mean, every given faithful person thinks they know exactly what God is up to and that we're doing the right thing. Except the problem is if we're all knowing what God is up to and we're all doing the right thing, how do we collectively get a society that is not doing what God wants us to do?

Has to be a disconnection point somewhere, right? Right? So discernment begins with this admission of our own ignorance. Of our own ignorance. And yet, at the same time, we are also affirming that this real God, this real spirit is working in the world to generate life. Right? So that if I am letting go of all of the claustrophobia and all of the ideas and all of the preferences of my own ego state and structure that is creating a vast space to listen for what God is actually doing.

And in the tradition, uh this letting go, this creating space is often referred to as spiritual indifference. I'm letting go of the things of the created world, the things that I think are the right things, so that I can glimpse something else. And these people in Hebrews, right, who are not going back to the land that they were attached to, right? It says, well, you could always go back, you could always, you know, do things the way we've always done them. But they have glimpsed something else. Right? They have glimpsed another homeland, they have glimpsed another set of promises. And they say, we are willing to let go of all of that to move out into the unknown because there is this spirit, there is this energy, there is this movement towards a different kind of kingdom.

And this is a very, very radical stance that a community engages in. It's very unusual. And often times it comes about as a result of not having much other choice. Right? Often oppressed communities in the face of empire engage in the most radical acts and behaviors of discernment because they don't have anything else to do. And as we begin to do this, as we begin to listen deeply for where is life, right? That is the basic discernment question. Right? If this God is invisible, if we do not know exactly, but we can begin to look at where is life appearing. Right? We have these different lists of the fruits of the spirit. Where is peace appearing, where is love appearing? What are the things that Jesus did? Where is healing appearing, where is caring? Are the people who are on the margins being taken care of in a real way? And the communities begin to follow that and do these things on their own. And they suddenly find that there are resources available and there is energy available and things begin to happen that are unexpected. Right? One of the first things that is always very sad to me in many, many church circles, when you start talking about doing some kind of work in the community, some kind of change or transformation, people will say, well, we don't have any money for that.

But if you can make it past that and begin to actually move in a way that is life giving, where people are excited, where there's energy going on, suddenly all these resources appear. Right now, of course, there is all kinds of conversation going on about America becoming this fascist state. There's all kinds of discussions going on about the National Guard being deployed in DC or to these other different places. It's very easy to point the finger at the terrible things that are happening. But Seattle is a democratic city, in a democratic county, in a democratic state. Why do we still have people on the street if that's a bad thing to have happening. We are home to several trillion dollar companies. There is so much money around here that people don't even know how to spend it. This is the reason we've got more and more new wineries every day that are selling us $100 bottles of wine that get a perfectly good bottle of wine at Costco for 13 bucks.

Right? There's so much money that we just that we just have to blow it on stuff. Right? Deborah and I went kayaking up on Orcas Island a few weeks ago, I could not believe the number of giant yachts there. Again, so much money, so much money. If we as a collective society are really not wanting the army on the street to get rid of unhoused people, why don't we house them? Why aren't we doing that? Right? It's a good thing for us to ponder and reflect upon. When a poor black woman in the deep south in the 1920s looked around and saw that none of the children of her community were going to school, she did not wait or expect for there to be pell grants coming from the federal government to make a school.

And she just said, we're making a school. And she even went to some of her local community members who said, we have no money, we can't make a school. She said, I don't care, we're making a school. That school is still running today as Spellman College. When the early communities in the Roman Empire looked around and saw that there was no health care. They didn't wait for Caesar to pass a Medicaid waiver. Caesar was never going to pass a Medicaid waiver. They were never going to get any money from the Herod health care fund. Because there wasn't a Herod health care fund, and they didn't expect there to be one. So they said, we need to just start taking care of people. And every time you go to a doctor's office or you go to a hospital. I want you to remember that these institutions were created by contemplatives who simply saw that it was life giving for them to give health care to people in their community. And those things grew and grew and grew and grew and developed. And now we have hospitals and health care systems. The Roman Empire had no hospitals and health care systems. It did not exist.

And so this practice of discernment can be seen in many ways as getting on this invisible people mover. You know, one of those things at the airport, like you get on and off you go. Right? There are these invisible movers all around us. Right? God is just creating them. There are these places where the spirit is moving, where things could happen, where there are opportunities. And we just don't see them. Right? We don't see them because we are busy with our ideas of what we should be up to. And when we begin to practice listening for the good fruit and doing more of that, and letting go of the bad fruit and doing less of that, we suddenly find that we are on these moving ramps. And we don't know exactly where they're going. This is the other thing. Well, are you demonstrating your outcomes? No. The outcomes we see as the fruits appear. Right? We are heading towards this other kind of home. This other place. We are engaging our spiritual imagination. Do we want a different kind of society? Let us find how we are being called to create that. And let's just do it.

And the thing is that the book of Hebrews, people take slices of it, but the book of Hebrews was trying to understand how it is that God works through history. Trying to talk about this huge span of stories, of peoples, of movement to help people to notice that there is this ongoing conveyor belt, that God continues to work in the world. And that we should not be discouraged that we will never see the outcome. We will see lots of little outcomes. But what needs to pull us forward is that vision. Is that vision of God's kingdom. Do we deeply desire that? Are we open to weeping at the brokenness of the world and using that as motivation to find something else? And getting on and going our little distance and moving humanity one step closer to a different reality. Which we all so desperately need. Amen.

### Invitation to the Offering
We respond to the free gift of God's grace by offering our own gifts of prayer, presence, God's tithes, service, and witness to the church for the transformation of our world. Even in times of doubt, of struggle, or of disbelief, still we practice the ancient rhythms of hope, gathering together, and sharing what we have with God and our neighbors. In this spirit, let us bring the offerings. And while we enjoy the gift of music from Carrie and Elizabeth today, you can use the envelopes in the pews or the links on the screens to make your own gifts.

### Offertory Music: "Zion's Walls" — Copland
Cary Lee, Soloist; Elisabeth Ellis, pianist
Come fathers and mothers, come sisters and brothers,
Come, join us in singing the praises of Zion.
Oh, fathers, don't you feel determined to meet within the walls of Zion.
We'll shout and go round, we'll shout and go round,
We'll shout and go round the walls of Zion.
The walls of Zion.
Come fathers and mothers, come sisters and brothers,
Come, join us in singing the praises of Zion.
Oh, fathers, don't you feel determined to meet within the walls of Zion.
We'll shout and go round, we'll shout and go round,
We'll shout and go round the walls of Zion.
The walls of Zion.

### Doxology: "Holy, Holy, Holy" — UMH 64 (verse 4)
**Congregation:** Holy, holy, holy! Lord God Almighty! All thy works shall praise thy name, in earth and sky and sea. Holy, holy, holy! Merciful and mighty, God in three persons, blessed Trinity.

### Prayer of Dedication
(enfleshed)
**Pastor Wan-G:** God, you have told us what you desire.
**Congregation:** Not offerings for your own sake, but lives oriented towards the common good.
**Pastor Wan-G:** Living in solidarity with the oppressed.
**Congregation:** Defending the persecuted, and advocating for the least by our side.
**Pastor Wan-G:** Receive these our gifts and nurture in us that act of faith.
**Congregation:** A life of love and eagerness to serve.
**Pastor Wan-G:** May your work within and among us be blessed.
**Congregation:** Amen.
**Pastor Wan-G:** Let us be seated.

### The Sacrament of Holy Communion
**Pastor Wan-G:** Friends online and watching later on YouTube, please go ahead and prepare a liquid and a solid to join us in this great Thanksgiving. God meets us where we are. God is beyond time and space and also particularly present with us. This is Christ's table, that means all are welcome here, far, none. You need not be of a certain age, of a certain uh membership to a denomination. You did uh you just need to come trusting in the mystery of love, of grace, of faith. Nothing we have done or have not done can separate us from the love of God and of God's merciful grace. Come desiring into this mystery of God's presence with us. The bread of life. The cup of justice. The Lord be with you.
**Congregation:** And also with you.
**Pastor Wan-G:** Lift up your hearts.
**Congregation:** We lift them up to the Lord.
**Pastor Wan-G:** Let us give thanks to the Lord our God.
**Congregation:** It is right to give our thanks and praise.
**Pastor Wan-G:** It is with joy that we give thanks and praise, summoning God for you called creation into being. You invited a people to be your own, and in your prophets you called your children time after time to return to your ways and live. In Jesus, you embodied your call to the whole world to worship you, to be your friends, to eat at this table with you. Through your spirit, you continue to beckon us to become members of your body and channels of your grace. Your mercy changes the shame of death into resurrection and into resurrection joy. And so with your people on earth and all the company of heaven, we praise your name and join their unending hymn.
**Congregation:** Holy, holy, holy, God of power and might. Heaven and earth are full of your glory. Hosanna in the highest. Blessed is the one who comes in the name of the Lord. Hosanna in the highest.
**Pastor Wan-G:** Restoring God, at your son's birth, you called together heaven and earth, rich and poor, humans and animals, among your son's disciples, you called together fishermen, tax collectors and zealots. In his ministry you summon soldiers and widows, criminals and Samaritans, and you sent out as apostles, women who proclaimed your resurrection. At this table now, you draw together the food of daily endeavor and the cup of celebration. Send your Holy Spirit among us and make us your diverse and holy people. By the power of your spirit, make these gifts of bread and wine be for us the body and blood of Christ, who at supper with his disciples, took bread, gave thanks, broke bread, and gave it to them saying, take, eat. This is my body, which is given for you. Do this in remembrance of me. And when supper was over, he took the cup, gave thanks to you, gave it to his disciples and said, drink from this, all of you. This is my blood of the new covenant, poured out for you and for many for the forgiveness of sins. Do this, as often as you drink it in remembrance of me. Great is the mystery of faith.
**Congregation:** Christ has died. Christ has risen. Christ will come again.
**Pastor Wan-G:** Calling God, you find us where we are and summon us to follow you. As you sent your disciples to fish in the waters of the world, renew your people in their vocations and ministries. Sanctify your children to share your good news and discover your kingdom near and far. Mend the nets of those who labor long and in vain, that all who look to you in faith may find from you fitting work to do. Until that day, when you gather your whole creation into one great net of grace and shower your universe with the wonder of your glory, ever one God, creator, spirit and Christ. Amen.

The body of Christ, given for us. The love of Christ, poured out for us.

### Call to Discipleship
**Pastor Wan-G:** With faith in all the ways that God continues to trust us here and now with our humanness, and continues to show us what it means to love, let us join together now in saying the prayer of Jesus in the language each of you are most comfortable with, or join with me, using the words on the screen.
**Congregation:** Our God, who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done, on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our trespasses, as we forgive those who trespass against us. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory forever. Amen.

### Closing Hymn: "The Summons" — TFWS #2130
**Pastor Wan-G:** We have available bread and grape juice here at First Church, uh gluten free bread is available. Uh you can ask for when you come forward. We will use two lines down the center aisle. Battery is weak. Uh we will use two lines down the center aisle. Um you can take the bread given to you and dip it into the cup of form. Uh we use here intinction. If you have a preference to refrain from elements today, please come forward with your hands over your heart and a blessing will be offered to you uh by myself on the side here. Come. God has prepared and set the table. Come with love.

Will you come and follow me, if I but call your name?
Will you go where you don't know and never be the same?
Will you let My love be shown, will you let My name be known,
Will you let My life be grown in you and you in Me?

Will you leave yourself behind if I but call your name?
Will you bear the cross of pain and never be the same?
Will you let My love be shown, will you let My name be known,
Will you let My life be grown in you and you in Me?

Will you love the "you" you hide if I but call your name?
Will you speak the words I provide and never be the same?
Will you let My love be shown, will you let My name be known,
Will you let My life be grown in you and you in Me?

Will you love the "you" you hide if I but call your name?
Will you speak the words I provide and never be the same?
Will you let My love be shown, will you let My name be known,
Will you let My life be grown in you and you in Me?

## Sending Forth
[01:13:59]
### Benediction

### Postlude: Passacaglia — Auguste Brandt