---
date: 2025-08-10
title: First United Methodist Church of Seattle
preacher: Rev. Jackie Celin
sermon_title: Welcoming Something New
scripture:
  - Hebrews 11:1-3, 8-16 (NRSVue)
  - Luke 12:32-40 (Inclusive Bible Translation)
---
## Gathering
[03:12]
### Prelude: Guide Me, O Thou Great Jehovah — Elisabeth Ellis, pianist

### Call to Worship
**Mona Tanaka:**
God calls us together in truth and courage.

**Congregation:**
Beckons us towards transformation.

**Mona Tanaka:**
Asks us to grow in love.

**Congregation:**
Welcomes us towards freedom.

**Mona Tanaka:**
The journey takes different shapes.

**Congregation:**
For different people in different contexts.

**Mona Tanaka:**
Salvation incarnates in many forms.

**Congregation:**
For some, it is an un-doing or pouring out.

**Mona Tanaka:**
And for others, a reclaiming and rising up.

**Congregation:**
God guides our paths according to our needs.

**Mona Tanaka:**
Blessed is the one who makes all things new. And now let us join together in the opening hymn Love Divine, All Loves Excelling.

### Opening Hymn: "Love Divine, All Loves Excelling" - UMH #384
Love divine, all loves excelling,
Joy of heaven, to earth come down,
Fix in us thy humble dwelling,
All thy faithful mercies crown.
Jesus, thou art all compassion,
Pure unbounded love thou art;
Visit us with thy salvation,
Enter every trembling heart.

Breathe, O breathe thy loving Spirit
Into every troubled breast;
Let us all in thee inherit,
Let us find that second rest.
Take away our bent to sinning,
Alpha and Omega be;
End of faith, as its beginning,
Set our hearts at liberty.

Come, almighty to deliver,
Let us all thy life receive;
Suddenly return, and never,
Nevermore thy temples leave.
Thee we would be always blessing,
Serve thee as thy hosts above,
Pray, and praise thee without ceasing,
Glory in thy perfect love.

Finish then thy new creation,
Pure and spotless let us be;
Let us see thy great salvation,
Perfectly restored in thee:
Changed from glory into glory,
Till in heaven we take our place,
Till we cast our crowns before thee,
Lost in wonder, love, and praise.

### Passing of the Peace
**Mona Tanaka:**
Hear the words of Jesus, "Peace I leave with you, my peace I give to you." The peace of Christ is ours through the Holy Spirit who dwells within us. The peace of Christ be with you.

**Congregation:**
And also with you.

### Welcome and Announcements
**Kurt Armbruster:**
Good morning, church, first church. My name is Kurt Armbruster. I have the high honor and distinct privilege of welcoming you to the service this morning. Pastor Wanji is out and Jackie is taking over everything as usual.

Uh, let's see here. We especially welcome those of you who are new to our community. This is a place to explore your spirituality and to bring your questions. We don't have all the answers, but together we ask the hard questions and confront the troubles and injustices we see in the world. And with God's help, we will use our collective voices and energy to bring about change.

A couple of announcements. I invite you to at this time to fill out your connection card. There are many different options available. For a link of the digital card, you can use the QR code on the screen. If you're in the sanctuary, there are also paper copies available both in the bulletin and in the back of the pews. And finally the QR code on the back of your bulletin, that says "connect with us," will actually connect with us.

Uh, name tags. We invite everyone to wear a name tag as it helps us greet and welcome one another. Please do as I say and not as I do. We also have writable sticky name tags available to our name tag table back in the narthex. Uh, we also have a digital form available to request a more permanent name tag. Anyone can get a printed name tag, just use the QR code on the screen and fill out the form.

Uh, we also have hearing assist devices available and they can be found in the colorful boxes uh to my right near the bottom of the staircase that leads up to the balcony. Just ask that we please turn off the the hearing assisted so it doesn't work all week. Uh, we also have children's worship bags available. We love having kids in the worship and these bags are filled with activities for kids that are a way for kids to be present with us and participate in worship. And they can be found to my left in the back. They are in the colorful set of bags on the top of the small bookshelf.

Uh, just a reminder that senior Pastor Wanji is out for the next few Sundays, returning on August 30th. And please contact uh contact associate Pastor Jackie for any pastoral needs that arise while she is away. You can contact her via her email, which is jackie@firstchurchseattle.org, or you can call the main office.

And finally, we had a special day yesterday. August 9th was a 50th wedding anniversary. Something that doesn't come along all all along. So I would like you to join with me in congratulating Catalina and Ellie on their 50th wedding anniversary.

### Land Acknowledgement
**Mona Tanaka:**
Please join in unity as we acknowledge the sacred lands on which we are now situated.

**Congregation:**
We acknowledge that we are situated on the traditional homelands of the Duwamish, the first people of Seattle. We honor and respect members of the Duwamish tribe, past and present, as well as the land and waters we share. May we live consciously and respectfully with one another, mindful of the sacredness of all God's creation.

### Lighting the Community Candle
**Mona Tanaka:**
And now let us take a moment to center ourselves for worship together as we light our community candle.

Whoever you are, wherever you find yourself today, across the spectrum of human existence, sexuality, identity, ability, or privilege, in a world full of questions, doubts, and a climate in crisis, may this community be a place of companionship and healing for you. There is nothing that can separate us from God's all embracing love. Christ invites you, Christ invites us, to find him in worship and celebration today.

### Special Music: "Keep Your Lamps Trimmed and Burning" - Sanctuary Choir
Keep your lamps trimmed and burning, keep your lamps trimmed and burning, keep your lamps trimmed and burning, the time is drawing nigh.
Keep your lamps trimmed and burning, keep your lamps trimmed and burning, keep your lamps trimmed and burning, the time is drawing nigh.
Children, don't you grow weary. Children, don't you grow weary. Children, don't you grow weary, for the time is drawing nigh.
Darker midnight lies before us, darker midnight lies before us, darker midnight lies before us, the time is drawing nigh.
See the morning star arising, see the morning star arising, see the morning star arising, the time is drawing nigh.
Children, don't you grow weary. Children, don't you grow weary. Children, don't you grow weary, for the time is drawing nigh.
Now our night will soon be over, our night will soon be over, yes, our night will soon be over, the time is drawing nigh.
Keep your lamps trimmed and burning, keep your lamps trimmed and burning, keep your lamps trimmed and burning, the time is drawing nigh, the time is drawing nigh, the time is drawing nigh. The time is drawing nigh.

### Prayers of the People
**Mona Tanaka:**
Let us pray.

Holy God, we thank you for our church, a place where we can gather to worship you, learn from your word and support one another. We are grateful for the leadership of Pastor Wanji, Pastor Jackie, committee chairs and volunteers, for their dedication and guidance in the various ministries that serve our community. Thank you for the opportunities we have to grow in faith, and ask for your continued blessings upon our church, that we may be a beacon of hope and a place where people can experience your presence.

A prayer of thanks, um that Pastor Sharon Mo is here and prayers for her continued health recovery. For Elizabeth Ellis's father, continued healing after his stroke, and for all those with ongoing health, financial and life's challenges. For those affected by budget cuts such as government employees and citizens relying on vital services. For those with heightened anxiety and uncertainty about personal futures. And we pray for your divine intervention for peace with the war in Ukraine and for the people starving in Gaza. May the hearts of our global leaders be moved to help bring an end to this violence and injustice.

Heavenly God, we turn to you knowing that you are our strength and believe that you with you, all things are possible. Grant us the endurance and resilience to face these challenges with faith and confidence. Fill us with your Holy Spirit so that we may rise above difficulties and find peace in your promises. We trust that your strength and love will carry us through, as you are our rock and our fortress. In Jesus' name, amen.

### Prayer Response: UMH #707 v1 Hymn of Promise
In the bulb there is a flower; in the seed, an apple tree; in cocoons, a hidden promise: butterflies will soon be free! In the cold and snow of winter there's a spring that waits to be, unrevealed until its season, something God alone can see.

## Proclaiming the Word
[22:47]
### New Testament Reading: Hebrews 11:1-3, 8-16 (NRSVue)
**Claire Gebben:**
The New Testament reading for this morning is from Hebrews 11, verses 1 through 3 and 8 through 16.

Now faith is the assurance of things hoped for, the conviction of things not seen. Indeed, by faith our ancestors received approval. By faith we understand that the worlds were prepared by the word of God, so that what is seen was made from things that are not visible. By faith, Abraham obeyed when he was called to set out for a place that he was to receive as an inheritance. And he set out, not knowing where he was going. By faith, he stayed for a time in the land he had been promised as in a foreign land, living in tents, as did Isaac and Jacob, who were heirs with him of the same promise. For he looked forward to the city that has foundations, whose architect and builder is God. By faith, with Sarah's involvement, he received power of procreation, even though he was too old, because he considered him faithful who had promised. Therefore, from one person and this one as good as dead, descendants were born, as many as the stars of heaven, and as the innumerable grains of sand by the seashore.

All of these died in faith without having received the promises. But from a distance they saw and greeted them. They confessed that they were strangers and foreigners on the earth. For people who speak in this way make it clear that they are seeking a homeland. If they had been thinking of the land that they had left behind, they would have had opportunity to return. But as it is, they desire a better homeland, that is, a heavenly one. Therefore, God is not ashamed to be called their God. Indeed, God has prepared a city for them.

### Gospel Reading: Luke 12:32-40 (Inclusive Bible Translation)
**Lorry Celin:**
Our gospel reading this morning is from Luke chapter 12, verses 32 through 40.

Fear not, little flock, for it is pleased your Abba to give you the kingdom. Sell what you own and give the money to poorer people. Make purses for yourselves that don't wear out. Treasures that won't fail you. In heaven that thieves can't steal and moths can't destroy. For wherever your treasure is, that's where your heart will be. Be dressed and ready, and keep your lamps lit. Be like the household staff awaiting the owner's return from a wedding, so that when the owner arrives and knocks, you'll open the door without delay. It will go well with those staff members whom the owner finds wide awake upon returning. I tell you the absolute truth. The owner will put on an apron, seat them at the table and proceed to wait on them. Should the owner happen to come at midnight or before sunrise and find them prepared, it will go well with them. Understand this. No homeowner who knew when a thief was coming would have let the thief break in. So be on guard. The promised one will come when least expected. This is the word of life.

**Congregation:**
Thanks be to God.

## Sermon: Welcoming Something New
**Preacher:** Rev. Jackie Celin
**Scripture:** Luke 12:32-40

[2:52]
Let us pray.

Let the words of my mouth and the meditations of our hearts, be acceptable not to each other, but to you, oh Lord, our rock and our redeemer. Amen.

When I was an architecture student, I traveled to Berlin as part of an architectural film elective. While there, we visited the recently opened Jewish Museum Berlin. They were running an advertising campaign that I found very clever, meant to disrupt people's expectations of a typical museum experience. They used the phrase, "Nicht das was sie erwarten." Not what you expect. With pictures of a cut tree that looked like salami inside. Or a green shiny caterpillar coming out of a tube of toothpaste. Or my favorite, on a poster I still have today. A tub faucet that pours out shaving cream instead of water. I think of these images when I ponder how to prepare for the unexpected.

Our Hebrews text today reminds us of the stories of our ancestors, shared across Abrahamic faith traditions. Today we heard Abraham's story, stepping out into the unknown through his faith, on a new journey, not knowing what to expect. We can do the same, trusting in God's vision for the future. And we know what God's vision is for us and for our world. One in which all humans, all creation, are treated with respect, dignity, and equality. One in which compassion and love governs. This is nothing new to us, and yet we still somehow fail to get there. Some days it even feels as if we are moving in the opposite direction, doesn't it? What will it take for us to move towards God's vision together, to truly consider how to live collectively?

To do this, Jesus asks us to focus on the treasures of heaven, spiritual matters of the heart, not material treasures that have no permanence. He says, "Fear not, little flock, for it has pleased your Abba to give you the kingdom." When we individually and collectively focus our hearts on spiritual treasures rather than physical ones, God's vision for our current world has the potential to become our new reality. And this isn't just a vision for when we pass from this world to the next. This vision can be realized in the here and now by first understanding our moral obligation to one another. Especially to persons in our community pushed to the margins, often left unseen and unheard. If our hearts are tuned into love for one another, rather than a need to hold tightly onto everything we think belongs to us, we can fulfill our moral obligations to our society by sharing our resources.

The Church Council of Greater Seattle taught us what it means to consider our shared budgets as moral documents. Last fall they pulled together congregations to advocate for a city of Seattle budget that prioritized our communities and that preserved funds set aside to care for the most vulnerable in our midst. Just think about the different kind of world we could live in if we approached all of our shared responsibilities this way. As Methodists, we're no strangers to the strength that comes from using our resources collectively. I have here a thank you letter from our conference for giving 100% of our apportionments in 2024. Funds each church sends for our collective work together as the whole denomination. It can be difficult to part with these funds. We have many other needs for them, as I'm sure many of you know. But we also recognize the ways our connected congregations can accomplish more together than any single church or conference alone. Understanding our moral obligations and how we can make decisions together, perhaps is the first step needed to experience God's vision of what is to come.

Next, we need to prepare our hearts to respond to Jesus's knock on the door. He says, "Be dressed for action and have your lamps lit," asking us to stay alert even in the wee hours of the night, ready for when the most unexpected may occur. The first part of this phrase translates directly from Greek to say, "Let your waist be girded," describing a call to be ready. In biblical times, garments or robes were worn down around the home. To go out and work or on a journey meant you had to gather your garments up in a belt. Keeping your lamps lit is a description found throughout several similar parables in all three Synoptic Gospels. It involves adding oil periodically and adjusting the wick as needed, requiring consistent attentiveness. We can't fully know what God's vision for our future will feel like. But if we are alert, attentive, and ready for action, we'll be prepared to witness the most beautiful and unexpected experience that may unfold. In our anthem today, we heard how the morning star rises out of the shadows of midnight, out of the dreary, troubled times of today. The morning star will reveal something new, something so stunning, we can't even fully comprehend what it may be. And it may arrive when we least expect it. Have you ever experienced something like that? A snippet of God's vision for us?

I've been reading a book I found in our library upstairs called "Enrique's Journey" by Sonia Nazario. It focuses on the story of a young man, a teenager from Honduras, who treks across Central America Central America and Mexico to reunite with his mother in the United States, who left years earlier to find work and provide for her family. This heartbreaking story is 20 years old, but still seems relevant today. It follows the part of his arduous and dangerous journey that occurs through Mexico, which involves jumping onto freight trains while they're moving and hanging on to dear life. He is repeatedly beaten and robbed by both bandits and by officials. And he has to restart his journey several times over after being caught and deported by bus back to the Guatemala border. Having had all his money taken, he must beg for food, water, and clothing at nearby homes. Oftentimes the people there look away or lock their doors. But midway through his journey, something beautiful, heartwarming, and most unexpected happened. As a train approached new communities midway through his journey, suddenly the people came running out of their homes to the tracks with gifts of food, water, and clothes, instead of running away, like previous places. And we learn that these are some of the poorest communities throughout Mexico. Listen to some of these stories. Gladys, six, grabs snacks from her father's grocery when she hears the train. They stand together alongside the track and wave while throwing gifts of crackers and water. Maria, over 100 years old, quickly gathers a bag of tortillas and beans for her 70-year-old daughter, who then quickly runs down a rocky slope to greet the migrants with food. Aguirre, with barely enough to feed her own family, still helps migrants at all four of the daily trains that go by her home, boldly telling the train conductor to slow down so she can throw the food. Often she'll even awake in the middle of the night to greet the other two trains. Friends, I read this and I have to ask myself, would I do the same? If I'm honest, I'm not sure I would. Would I really be willing to give up so much of my time, my energy, my resources, day after day, with no end in sight? What compels this community to do so? And what would it take to compel us in a similar way?

The gospels of Mark and Matthew contain similar parables to this one in Luke. However, while Mark and Matthew locate these parables in the in the eschatological discourse of their gospels, Luke actually locates this parable in the travel narrative, as Jesus travels with his disciples to Jerusalem. It's in a section of warnings for the disciples. Perhaps Jesus is emphasizing the importance of staying spiritually alert for his later return. Or preparing them for experiencing God's presence in their own lives. Or possibly, preparing them for the coming of God's kingdom here on earth. It reminds us that the salvation we seek isn't only individual, it is also communal. As we hold hope that one day our society, our world, our planet, our earth, our universe, our cosmos will be made new, free of harm, free of evil, free of oppression. This is God's vision for us, to see each other as fully human, fully created, worthy of God's love and ours. To get there we need to consider where we need to disrupt systems of control even in our own lives.

Jesus mentions the thief two times in this passage, reminding us that the thief is unpredictable, and that they can't touch heavenly treasures. But we must explore how we have been thieves to one another, especially when those of us in the prevailing culture have taken material possessions and agency from marginalized populations and often continue to do so. Looking at the snapshot of of a map of indigenous tribes throughout North America should cause us to question if we really own the land and buildings that we think we own. And examining some of the restrictions we've placed on others helps us realize how the privileges of the prevailing culture continue to increase manyfold, while oppressed populations are left to deal with multiple injustices that continue to affect future generations, such as redlining during the great depression that that denied home loans in mortgage insurance to black communities. Removing indigenous children from families and sending them to boarding schools that cruelly stripped away their languages and their culture. And refusing ordination to LGBTQIA+ persons in our own denomination until just last year. To experience God's vision for us, we need to get comfortable with giving up control. Control that isn't really ours to have. Perhaps we should welcome that which comes to spiritually free us. To help us remove barriers we place around our hearts and limitations we try to put on others. Let us remember that our resources are meant to be shared. Let us look to God's vision first and then let everything else just fall into place.

We're learning here what it means to live by a vision first. Earlier this year our church leadership gathered to determine our near-term goals. One of those was to live into a vision for one of our biggest resources, this building. We envisioned how it can be used as a shared resource for our larger community. How it can bustle with people and energy rather than just sit here empty most days of the week. We were recently presented with an opportunity and a request from a trusted partner to host a social justice event that aligned with our ministry work and values. Unfortunately, it happened to land on a day we had previously planned for an important congregational event. However, when we were able to shift our mindset and instead allow ourselves to be led first by our vision, we were able to recognize the unnecessary restrictions we were trying to hold on to. We then focused on reasonable solutions to potential overlaps, recognizing that both uses could coexist without affecting one another. Perhaps even will both experience something beautifully unexpected from it. So then I invite you to consider what it means to live into God's vision first and allow yourself to let go of the earthly holds of our current world.

So then, the blueprint that we've outlined today contains the following steps. Step one: Recognize the moral obligation we have to all creation. Step two: Prepare yourself to take action when Jesus knocks on your door. Step three: Examine the places in your life where you are grasping onto control that can and should be released. Step four: Follow Jesus. It's as simple as that. Jesus tells us that we will not know the hour he will knock. Well, friends, the time is now. Jesus already walks amongst us. Jesus is found in each other. Jesus is found in the broken, the lost, the disenfranchised, the hungry, the thirsty. Jesus is found in all of God's created world. What better way to prepare than to follow Jesus and start living into God's vision of a new creation for our world now. How will you allow yourself, your resources, your time, and comfort to be disrupted in order to create space for the unexpected to emerge? Are you ready to welcome something new? Something so exquisite, so magnificent, perhaps we can't even fully imagine it until we experience. I, for one, can't wait to see it. Can you? All glory be to God. Amen.

## Responding
[39:40]
### Invitation to the Offering
**Mona Tanaka:**
We respond to the free gift of God's grace by offering our own gifts of prayer, presence, gifts, God's tithes, service, and witness to the church for the transformation of our world. As followers of Christ, we put our hope in things we cannot yet perceive. We profess that the evil which steals life and lives away for the sake of power and profit will not last forever. We can participate in this transformation. With this faith, let us gather our offerings together to be in service of justice, redistribution, and compassion. While we enjoy this gift of music, you can use the envelopes in the pews or the links on the screens to make your own gift today.

### Offertory Music: "Come Down From The Tree" - Ibidunni Ojikutu, soloist; Elisabeth Ellis, pianist
Come down from the tree.
Just open your arms and trust.
You know in your heart, that one of these days you must,
Come down from the tree.
It's easy to feel afraid.
And hard giving up that safe little nest you've made.
When you have something so warm and familiar to cling to,
Your arms won't let go.
You close your eyes to the dark,
Brush your nose to the bark,
And hold on.
Yes, I know.
But down below is where you must be,
And what you were meant to do.
So hold out your hand,
And listen to someone who,
Was once in a tree.
Like you.
[inaudible]
Soon you'll have someone so warm and familiar to cling to,
And love till you die.
When your heart knows what it needs,
You must go where it leads.
Leave the nest.
Learn to fly.
And that's why I came down from my tree.
And all that I held so dear.
When I found my love,
The rest of my life was clear.
Come down from your tree.
Come down,
I'm here.

### Doxology: UMH #64 v4 Holy, Holy, Holy, Lord God Almighty
Holy, holy, holy! Lord God Almighty! All thy works shall praise thy name, in earth and sky and sea. Holy, holy, holy! Merciful and mighty, God in three persons, blessed Trinity.

### Prayer of Dedication
**Rev. Jackie Celin:**
Blessed Redeemer, it is your grace that transforms our understanding. Whether we struggle with greed or entitlement, shame or ignorance, internalize oppression or a spirit of domination, you come to set us free, to rebalance us and the world, to authentically and justly heal the wounds of generations. We thank you for equipping us. May our offerings be a harvest of love, blessed to the flourishing of all people. Amen.

### The Sacrament of Holy Communion
**Rev. Jackie Celin:**
The Lord be with you.

**Congregation:**
And also with you.

**Rev. Jackie Celin:**
Lift up your hearts.

**Congregation:**
We lift them up to the Lord.

**Rev. Jackie Celin:**
Let us give thanks to the Lord our God.

**Congregation:**
It is right to give our thanks and praise.

**Rev. Jackie Celin:**
It is right and a good and joyful thing, always and everywhere, to give thanks to you, almighty God, creator of heaven and earth. You shared with us your spiritual image. You gave us the breath of your Holy life, and placed us in the garden of your universe to care for and live in it. But we failed your calling. Turned our backs on your presence and sought after our own understandings. We denied your will and instead fought to establish our dominance over our fellow human beings. Even going so far as to deny the presence of your image within each other. Empower us to turn our backs upon this life of sin, most gracious God, and further grant that we will reach out to one another as we join with your children in all generations and in glory everlasting to sing the angelic hymn.

**Congregation:**
Holy, holy, holy Lord God of power and might. Heaven and earth are full of your glory. Hosanna in the highest. Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. Hosanna in the highest.

**Rev. Jackie Celin:**
Holy are you and blessed is your son, Jesus Christ, whom you sent to share our human condition. To live as one of us and to express your love to all by teaching, preaching, healing, leading, guiding, dying, and rising for us. We thank you for coming to be among us for sharing with us the heart of your transforming love and acceptance. And for giving us your amazing presence through the power of your Holy Spirit. We have not been left alone to seek after your will in the shadows. But have been blessed with the light of the scriptures, the traditions and history of the church universal. Our experience of your sanctifying grace and minds capable of reasoning faith. And so having heard your word proclaimed, and having offered our prayers as your people, now we gather at this, your table, to be reunited to your son and with each other. Sharing the bread of heaven and being fed with your holy, mysterious, real presence.

On the night in which he gave himself up for us, Jesus took bread, gave thanks to you, broke the bread, gave it to his disciples and said, "Take, eat. This is my body, which is given for you. Do this in remembrance of me."

When the supper was over, he took the cup. Gave thanks to you, gave it to his disciples and said, "Drink from this, all of you. This is the cup of blessing poured out for you and for many for the forgiveness of sins. Do this as often as you drink it in remembrance of me."

And so in remembrance of these your mighty acts in Jesus Christ, we offer ourselves in praise and thanksgiving as a holy and living sacrifice in union with Christ's offering for us, as we proclaim the mystery of faith.

**Congregation:**
Christ has died. Christ is risen. Christ will come again.

**Rev. Jackie Celin:**
Now pour out your Holy Spirit on us gathered here and on these gifts of bread and fruit of the vine. Make them be for us the bread of life and the quenching cup of blessing. That we may be for the world the body of Christ, redeemed by Christ and empowered by the gifts of the Spirit. By your Spirit, make us one with Christ, one with each other, and one in ministry to all the world, showing forth the fruit of the Spirit until Christ comes in final victory and we feast at the heavenly banquet. Through your son, Jesus Christ, with the Holy Spirit in your Holy church, all honor and glory is yours, almighty God, now and forever. Amen.

**Rev. Jackie Celin:**
Because there is one loaf, we, who are many, are one body. For we all partake of the one loaf. The bread which we break is a sharing in the body of Christ. The cup over which we give thanks is a sharing in the life of Christ.

With faith in all the ways that God continues to trust us here and now, with all our humanness and continues to show us what it means to love, let us join together now in saying the prayer of Jesus in the language each of you are most comfortable with, or join in using the words on the screen.

**Congregation:**
Our God, who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done, on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread. And forgive us our trespasses, as we forgive those who trespass against us. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Amen.

**Rev. Jackie Celin:**
We use bread and grape juice here at First Church, and the servers have gluten-free available at your request. We will form two lines down the center aisle and receive communion through intinction. The server will give you a piece of bread, and then you may dip that into the cup. If you prefer, you may use the small cups of grape juice that will be on the taller tables here to the side and then place the empty cups at the far trays at at either side. If you prefer a blessing instead of receiving communion, just place your arms over yourself like this. Come, now the table is set. Let us feast together.

### Call to Discipleship
**Claire Gebben:**
We come now to a time of in our worship service, where we consider how to respond to God's shared, spoken, and sung word. As we work towards God's vision for us and for our world, I invite you to take a look at our e-news webpage and First Church Seattle.org upcoming events, because I'm not going to be able to go through everything here. It's quite a list. We're having our Rally Day September 7. And if you don't know what Rally Day, I sure didn't know what Rally Day was. It just means that come September, we all come back together. There won't be cheerleaders or pom-poms or anything. It's just going to be a gathering with a all church picnic afterwards. Um, the main dishes of the picnic will be provided, but bring a side dish or a dessert if you so choose to make it a bit of a Methodist style potluck too. That's also a day we're going to have a debt free celebration for having completely paid off our church mortgage. So that'll be quite a party. So maybe there will be pom-poms. And leading up to September 7, we're having a back to school drive for Lowell Elementary School, Seattle Public School in the Eastlake neighborhood. Um, there's a whole list on the back of your bulletin of things that they could use, the crayons and backpacks and so on. They also especially need pencils, baby wipes, dry erase markers, colored pencils and packaged snacks, although not nuts or peanuts. Uh, so those can be dropped off at the table in the narthex between now and all the way through Rally Day, Sunday, September 7. Anyone interested in outdoor activities, um, kayaking, hiking, canoeing, walking, running, bicycling, you name it. Um, there's a group forming right now where people can communicate and plan together for upcoming outdoor activities. And the weather's still great, so it's never too late, and, um, there's a form in the e-news and online for you to fill out to get connected with those folks. Uh, there's an event on Saturday, September 6, Dr. Cornell West is speaking at Town Hall in Seattle. That is an event that is brought to you by the Valley Mountain United Methodist Church. And it's a fundraiser for the Center for Faith, Art, and Justice. And more details about Dr. Cornell West, who is the Dietrich Bonhoeffer Chair at Union Theological Seminary, can be found in the back of your bulletin. The title of the event is "Faith in the Time of Monsters." So if you'd like to come to that, please do. Something that is not in your bulletin or on the slides is an event next Saturday, August 16, from 5:00 to 8:00. All are invited to attend a report by attendees of the International Coalition for Human Rights in the Philippines. It was an event coalition that was held this past June. The event will take place at Japanese Baptist Church. And if you'd like information, talk to Patty Pastor Jackie about that. The Church of Council of Greater Seattle is holding direct action trainings. It's non-violent direct action training to get prepared to be a confident non-violent presence when communities hardest hit are calling for faith allies to show up. So see the e-news for more info on that. And two Sundays from now, we will hear again from Dan Wolpert on the spiritual practice of social transformation. He's both speaking and teaching preaching and teaching, so look on the back of your bulletin for those details. And we're now going to hear from April Little, who is our children and Youth Ministry's coordinator.

**April Little:**
Hello, everyone. Um, so, um, Rally Day's fast approaching, which means the start of our ministry year. Um, we're going to start Sunday School the week uh after Rally Sunday. We're going to be holding it on the second and third Sunday of each month, and we're looking for some volunteers, um, because we need at least with any children and youth program programming, we need two adults. I will always be one of them. Um, and so we're looking for folks uh who can volunteer at least once a quarter, um, because then we can get into a rotation of volunteers. Um, you need not be knowledgeable in theology or the Bible. Um, all the curriculum is going to be prepared. You don't need to worry about that. You just have to come being ready to enjoy being with kids. Um, and so if you're interested in that, you can come talk to me after the service.

**Elisabeth Ellis:**
And Elizabeth Ellis and Teddy have an announcement for us. Good morning. Teddy isn't really part of the announcements, he'll just bark if I leave him. I'm trying to get him to be as good a boy as Thatcher always was. Uh, I've got three quick announcements. The first, well, let's see what's first. Open Choir. Oh, there he goes. He knows communion bread is somewhere. Um, so open choir in August. Um, all you need to do if you've ever wanted to come sing with us is come on 9:30 on Sunday mornings. Uh, we had someone join us this morning. It was lovely to have Tony with us. Um, it's zero pressure. You just come sing along with us and then we sing in the morning service. And then if you enjoy your time and want to continue on with us in the fall, that would be amazing. But for August, just feel free to drop in 9:30 on Sunday mornings right here. We'll save you a spot. And then the second announcement, People's Choice Hymns. So you may have noticed in the bulletin today it said Congregational Hymn Choice next to all of our hymns. Traditionally, the hymns are chosen each Sunday by whoever our preacher or speaker of the day is. But during the month of August, we're trying to do some hymns that you want to sing. So all you need to do is look on the back of your bulletin, there should be a QR code next to the little announcement there. And if you scan that QR code, it will take you to a link on our website, and you can put in a hymn that you would like us to sing. And we will plug it in wherever it fits best, like Jackie did today. So, um, we want to hear from you, so please go ahead and fill that out. And then our third announcement is for a recital that's coming up. The same Sunday that Dan Wolpert will be here. It's going to be an amazing day. So he'll be doing Sunday School, and then preaching in the service. And then immediately following the service, we're going to have a beautiful recital right here in the sanctuary. It's free to come. You'll have some snacks by Duwana and then you can come back in. It'll be a 45 minute program, and it's um, it's by a married opera uh couple. They're friends of mine. And one is a soprano, and then she's married to a tenor, which never happens usually in real life. Usually that's just in the operas and usually the soprano dies. But not not in this case. They're a lovely couple, and they sing really beautifully together, and we're really lucky to have them here. So, that'll be on the 24th right after the service. Thank you.

## Sending Forth
[66:08]
### Closing Hymn: "In the Midst of New Dimensions" - TFWS #2238
In the midst of new dimensions, in the face of changing ways,
We will know the Christ who calls us to be open in these days.
We will let our hearts be broken for the hungry and the poor;
We will know the Christ who calls us to be neighbors as before.
God, whose grace has been sufficient to sustain us till this hour,
Is the grace that will be ample to support us in the power
Of the Spirit's transformation, living faithful lives anew;
We will know the Christ who calls us to be willing, strong, and true.

### Benediction
**Rev. Jackie Celin:**
Hear now this Benediction from In Fleshed.

Be encouraged, beloveds. The Holy Spirit pours out her creativity over us. Whatever shape evil takes, there are still so many ways to practice love. Seek them. Open to them. Wonder about them. Dream them. Play with them. Let them change everything. Everything can still change. With the Spirit's help, let us go and get ready. Amen.
