---
date: 2025-08-03
title: Together We Serve
preacher: Barbara Moreland
sermon_title: All in the Family
scripture:
  - Exodus 4:1-5, 10-17
  - Luke 10:38-42
---

## Gathering
[02:45]
### Prelude
*Elisabeth Ellis, pianist*

### Call to Worship

**Kathryn Everett:**
Come sons and daughters, mothers and fathers, sisters and brothers and cousins!

**Congregation:**
Come grandmas and grandpas, uncles and nephews, nieces and neighbors and friends!

**Kathryn Everett:**
Christ calls us together as parts of one family.

**Congregation:**
Together we worship and serve, we share and support!

**Kathryn Everett:**
We gather today, a tapestry of lives woven together, a blended family reflecting God's grace.

**Congregation:**
May our hearts be open to one another, and may God's presence fill this sacred space.

### Opening Hymn: "Gather Us In" — TFWS #2236
[03:59]
Gather us in, the lost and forsaken,
Gather us in, the blind and the lame.
Call to us now and we shall awaken,
Call to us now with the sound of thy name.
Gather us in, the young and the aging,
Gather us in, the rich and the poor.
We have been sent through all of the ages,
Called to be light to the whole human race.

Gather us in, the rich and the haughty,
Gather us in, the proud and the strong.
Give us all hearts so meek and so lowly,
Give us the courage to enter the throng.
Here we will take the wine and the water,
Here we will take the bread of new birth.
Here you shall call your sons and your daughters,
Call us anew to be salt for the earth.

Give us to drink the wine of compassion,
Give us to eat the bread that is true.
Nourish us well and teach us to fashion,
Lives that are holy and hearts that are true.
Not in the dark of buildings confining,
Not in some heaven far in the great,
But here in this place where new life is shining,
Now is the kingdom. Now is the day.

Gather us in and hold us forever,
Gather us in and strengthen us all.
Gather us in, all peoples together,
By our of love in our flesh and our bones.

### Passing of the Peace

**Kathryn Everett:**
The peace of Christ be with you.

**Congregation:**
And also with you!

### Welcome and Announcements

**Pastor Jackie:**
[08:54]
Good morning, First Church. I am Pastor Jackie, my pronouns are she and her. I'm the associate pastor of congregational and community engagement here at First Church. And we are so glad that you are visiting us and worshiping with us today, whether you are here in person or joining us online. We welcome those of you who are new to our community. This is a place to explore your spirituality and to bring your questions. We don't have all the answers, but together we ask the hard questions and confront the troubles and injustices that we see in the world. With God's help, we use our collective voices and our collective energy to bring change.

At this time, I invite you to fill out your connection card. We've got several different versions available. There's a QR code that will take you to our digital form. Uh, if you are here in the sanctuary, we have several uh paper copies as well. There's a paper copy in your bulletin. There are also some throughout the back of the pews. Go ahead, fill that out. Let us know about um any additional information that you would like about First Church or our ministries. There's also a place on the back for prayer requests. On the back of your bulletin, there's also a QR code that says connect with us. Uh, if you use that QR code, that will bring you to our uh worship live stream uh web page that will have a link to all of these forms. The connection card, um, as well as uh signing up for our e-news and various other things. We also have a digital form for name tags that will be up there, and there's a QR code for the name tag form. Uh, we invite everyone to wear name tags. It helps us uh to be able to greet one another. Um, uh, anybody can get a name tag printed. Just go ahead and fill out that form. We'll get one printed for you and have it available at one of our upcoming Sundays in the back. We also have um some sticky name tags um at our name tag table in the back if you'd like to write your name on those.

We also have hearing assist devices available. Those can be found at the colorful little boxes um at the bottom of the stairs to my right that lead up to the balcony. Go ahead and take one out and use it during the service. We just ask that you please turn it off at the end of the service and then put it back into those boxes. We also have children's worship bags available. Those are to my left in the back, um, uh, some colorful little bags on top of that bookshelf back there. We love having kids in worship, and this is a way that they can be in worship with us and participate.

Uh, you may have noticed that Pastor Wan G is out uh today, that uh Pastor Wan G is our senior pastor. She is on vacation for the next three weeks. Um, and so if you have any pastoral needs, please reach out to me um in her um absence. You can reach me at jackie@firstchurchseattle.org or call our front office. And we are grateful today to have our very own Barbara Moreland as our guest preacher today. Barbara needs no introduction. Having been such a significant part of our leadership here at First Church and having held just about every role at some point or another. Currently she is our Church Council chair and our lay member to annual conference. We give thanks for the many hats she wears at First Church, for her leadership and her commitment, and for the words that she will share with us later today.

And now I will invite up Catherine to lead us in our land acknowledgment.

### Land Acknowledgement

**Kathryn Everett:**
[12:28]
Please join me with the words on the screen.

**Congregation:**
We acknowledge that we are situated on the traditional homelands of the Duwamish, the first people of Seattle. We honor and respect members of the Duwamish tribe, past and present, as well as the land and waters we share. May we live consciously and respectfully with one another, mindful of the sacredness of all God's creation.

### Lighting the Community Candle

**Kathryn Everett:**
[13:03]
Now let us take some time to recentering ourselves as we light the community candle.

Whoever you are, wherever you find yourself today, across the spectrum of human existence, sexuality, identity, ability or privilege, in a world full of questions, doubts, and climate in crisis, may this community be a place of companionship and healing for you. There is nothing that can separate us from God's all-embracing love. Christ invites you, Christ invites us, to find him in worship and celebration today.

### Special Music: "Child of God" — arr. Mark Hayes, Summer Sanctuary Choir
[14:12]
I am a child of God,
Part of the family.
I am fashioned by Creator's hand,
Made in the image of the great I Am.
I am an heir with Christ.
I am a child of God.
You are a child of God,
Part of the family.
You are fashioned by Creator's hand,
Made in the image of the great I Am.
You are an heir with Christ.
You are a child of God.

We will live and move like God, holy,
In God's eternal hands.
The love of God has filled our hearts,
With joy beyond compare.
We cannot help but share the joy,
With every one we meet.
So we live in the love of Christ,
And walk with God here.

You are a child of God,
Child of God, part of the family,
Family, you are fashioned by Creator's hand,
Made in the image of the great I Am.
You are an heir with Christ.
You are a child of God.
I am a child of God,
I am a child of God.
You are a child of God.
We are the children of God.
We are the children of God,
Children of God.

**Kathryn Everett:**
[17:26]
Amen.

## Proclaiming the Word
[20:24]
### Old Testament Reading: Exodus 4:1-5, 10-17

**Greg Wallace:**
The Old Testament reading is a familiar passage from Exodus.

Then Moses answered, "But look, they may not believe me or listen to me, but say, 'The Lord did not appear to you.'" The Lord said to him, "What is that in your hand?" He said, "A staff." And he said, "Throw it on the ground." So he threw the staff on the ground and it became a snake, and Moses drew back from it. Then the Lord said to Moses, "Reach out your hand and seize it by the tail." So he reached out his hand and grasped it, and it became a staff in his hand. And so that they may believe that the Lord, the God of their ancestors, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, the God of Jacob, has appeared to you. But Moses said to the Lord, "Oh my Lord, I have never been eloquent, neither in the past nor even now, that you have spoken to your servant, but I am slow of speech and slow of tongue." Then the Lord said to him, "What gives speech to mortals? Who makes them mute or deaf, seeing or blind? Is it not I, the Lord? Now go and I will be your mouth and teach you, and what you are to speak." But he said, "Oh my Lord, please send someone else." Then the anger of the Lord was kindled against Moses and he said, "What of your brother Aaron, the Levite? I know that he can speak well. Even now he is coming out to meet you. And when he sees you his heart will be glad. You shall speak to him and put the words in his mouth, and I will be your mouth and with his mouth, and will teach you what you shall do. He indeed shall speak to you for you to the people. He shall serve as a mouth for you, and you shall serve as God for him. Take it in your hand this staff, with which you shall perform the signs."

### Gospel Reading: Luke 10:38-42

**Craig Sheppard:**
[23:34]
The New Testament reading is from the Gospel of Luke, chapter 10, verses 38 through 42.

Now as they went on their way, he entered a certain village where a woman named Martha welcomed him. She had a sister named Mary, who sat at Jesus' feet, and listened to what he was saying. But Martha was distracted by her many tasks, so she asked him to him, she came to him rather and asked, "Lord, do you not care that my sister has left me to do all the work by myself? Tell her then to help me." But the Lord answered her, "Martha, Martha, you are worried and distracted by many things, but few things are needed, indeed only one. Mary has chosen the better part, which will not be taken away from her." This is the word of life.

**Congregation:**
Thanks be to God.

## Sermon: All in the Family
**Preacher:** Barbara Moreland
**Scripture:** Luke 10:38-42

[23:38]
Good morning. Today I want to talk about families, particularly siblings, sisters and brothers, and how they may work together or don't, uh how they may support each other, but don't.

[24:10]
Three recent, but completely separate incidents, triggered my thinking about this very basic relationship. Last week my daughter, Tanya, and her husband, Kevin, came from Michigan to visit us. For part of that time that they were here, my son, Chris, came up from Olympia to join us. On the evening that both of my children were in the house, I was in the kitchen cooking dinner and listening as the young people talked about events and experiences and people that they remembered from earlier times, mostly around their high school years. While Tanya and Chris were both involved in the activity or event that they were talking about, the specific details didn't always match up. The version Tanya told was challenged by Chris, and vice versa. Loud voices often became laughter and shouts of "No, that's not how it was" or "Oh, I'd forgotten that part." And I loved it. I loved having them both near me. Listening to them sent me down memory lane as well, and it was wonderful. Every parent of grown-ups, who will always be your children, understand exactly what I'm talking about.

The second family incident came in the form of a photograph from my brother on my birthday, which was last Monday. Can we see that photograph? This family photo was obviously taken for a church directory. We don't know the exact date, but it was likely in the early 1960s. As you can see, I am the oldest of the three, with one sister and one brother. We three kids have the exact looks on our faces that I find in almost every family photo. Me, properly attired and properly smiling into the camera, the oldest, the good girl. My sister is in the background, just barely visible with her hair slightly askew and likely something spilled on her dress. And my little brother is scowling at the camera because he had to wear those clothes.

Seeing this photo from my distant past makes me laugh and makes me cry. Both my parents are gone now, and in fact, I am much older than they were in that photograph. My siblings live in Texas, so I don't see them very often. And the world seemed much simpler back then, and we siblings are now far, far, far from the young innocents we were in that photo.

My third encounter with the idea of family, especially siblings, came last Sunday at the leadership workshop. To begin our time together, we asked each person in the room to answer a question. In one word, what does First Church mean to you? The answers were insightful and included things like acceptance, history, legacy, curiosity, hope. But the majority of the answers that we got referenced in some way family or community. Terms like collective action, community of Jesus followers, enlightened community, intentional community, difference makers, shared values, fellowship, support.

All these series of family connections led me to ask some questions. I looked for examples of scriptures about family, particularly siblings. I asked, what can we learn from the stories of these sisters and brothers that have come to us through the centuries? And finally, what does it mean to be connected to each other as siblings in what I call the family of Christ?

One of the first relationships of biblical siblings that I think of is Moses and Aaron and Miriam. I've always thought of these three as a team. They always come together. Each one had specific skills and abilities, and together they led their people out of slavery in an amazing, life-changing, complicated process. As we heard in the passage that Greg read, Moses was a reluctant leader. He didn't want to go to Egypt, he was afraid to confront Pharaoh, and he didn't believe he was capable of leading a mass of people out of slavery and into another country. He persistently argued with God, insisting that he was the wrong person for the job. "I can't lead anyone, they won't listen to me. I'm not the leader type." He eventually wore God down to the point that God said, "Okay, okay, okay, take your brother with you and let him do the talking." And that's what Moses did. Their sister Miriam had a role to play as well. We already know she was smart and brave from the story of her baby brother being put into a basket for Pharaoh's daughter to discover. Now she keeps the people's spirits up, encourages the women, and I think she teaches them to dance, and adding her voice to her brother's decisions. She prioritizes relationships among this rag tag group of escapees as they made their way out of Egypt and moved into the process of becoming an entirely new, reborn nation.

Three siblings, each with particular gifts and talents, one with optimism and people skills, one a smooth talker who could face powerful men, one a reluctant leader with a an inferiority complex. But all part of the family of God, and all making their own unique contributions.

A second set of siblings with something to teach us is Mary and Martha. They are the sisters of Lazarus, the man whom Jesus raised from the tomb four days after he died. But in this story, I always focus on the women. In our scriptures, I find it fascinating, although not surprising, at how differently the two sisters are, how they react when Jesus comes to their home. Martha is the perfect hostess. I see her arranging for her guests to have water so they can clean up after walking along the dusty road. She settles them comfortably with cool drinks. Then hurries off to the kitchen to prepare a meal. No small task given that we don't know exactly how many people Jesus brought with him for this unexpected meal. Martha is a very active personality. Mary, on the other hand, is the contemplative one. She comes in and sits down with the men, and listens intently to every word Jesus says. I can visualize her sitting as close to Jesus as she dares to, maybe urging the others to be quiet so she can hear everything he says. Now Martha feels that Mary should be helping out with the care of their guests and complains to Jesus about her sister's priorities. And Jesus points out that there are different ways to show hospitality, and perhaps Mary understands something that Martha is missing. Of course, Martha's work is necessary and important and appropriate. After all, their good friend Jesus is there and has descended on their home and is expected to be treated with hospitality. What Martha doesn't grasp is that her sister Mary is also providing a gift to their guests.

I don't see Jesus's response to the women showing favoritism. He simply tells the sisters, "You do what you're good at, share who you are." Everyone's gifts, talents, emotions, ability are sacred when they are used to offer comfort, acceptance, and respect.

Now it's really easy for me to see the people of First Church as family. I have no problem looking at you and seeing brothers and sisters. Okay, maybe a few of you are more like distant cousins, but that's okay. I call this web of connections the family of Christ. And that shared connection makes us responsible to and for each other. I also see parallels between the biblical siblings and the more current version, like you and I. First Church is but one representation of the large family and multiple sibling connections.

In most families, someone has to be the oldest sister. The somewhat serious, smart enough to be useful, keenly aware of all she knows and all she doesn't know. Someone willing to take a chance, and not be afraid of stepping into a leader's role. Someone who is determined to support others and empower them to be their full selves. Someone who could be the first to take a big step toward the future. When I look at the family of First Church, I see many of you who have taken on those roles. You have become leaders. And I am grateful for your courage, your wisdom, your vision, your patience, and your plain old hard work.

That brings us to another important parallel between the biological, physical family and the family of Christ. And I'll call that passing the torch. Over time, siblings in any family, including the family of Christ, age out, if I use that term, of the roles they've held for a long time. The needs of a family can change, and space must be made for new ways to accomplish objectives, or to take on new tasks, or to do old tasks in new ways. Within the physical family that could mean someone besides mom and dad hosting Christmas dinner, or perhaps the younger generation takes on handling the family finances, and probably puts everything online. But it does not mean going away. The elders do not disappear or disengage. They do not leave the family. What we do, and I admit, I am one of this group, is continually try to identify and support and encourage and teach and listen to the next generation. And eventually, hopefully, with grace, we move out of the way. But even as roles shift, everyone is part of the family, committed to each other, and to the welfare of all our spiritual siblings. That is the family of Christ.

Yes, some of us are the mature generation, and some of you are the younger siblings in the First Church family. And that would younger has nothing to do with physical age. I'm talking about you who are still in the process of developing your gifts that you've been given, and finding out how to use them in the most meaningful way. The growth and potential of First Church is abundant and obvious. And your family of Christ is supporting you, whether you are part of the always been here, or moving into power. Eventually, when the time is right, after mistakes have been made and lessons learned, the younger group will emerge as a focused, mighty force, ready to take on whatever challenges and opportunities God's puts in our path.

I believe in each of you, the members of this particular family of Christ. Those getting started, and those slowing down. I have no doubt that all of you can grow and serve, explode appropriately with energy and love, and change the world. You have it in you to make a difference. And a difference that matters.

I know explosive growth and change can happen because I've seen it. Remember that scowling little boy in the picture? At some point, he became a little bit taller than me. And the next thing I knew he was six feet seven. Then he got married and had two sons. Now he is the grandfather to three boys and four girls. He still objects to me calling him my little brother. Really hates it. But you know what? Sometimes I do it anyway. After all, what are big sisters for? My brothers and sisters in the family of Christ, thanks be to God for you. Amen.

## Responding
[39:47]
### Invitation to the Offering

**Kathryn Everett:**
We respond to the free gift of God's grace by offering our own gifts of prayer, presence, gifts, God's tithe, service, and witness to the church for the transformation of our world. It need not be complicated, friends. There's they there need not be hoops to jump through nor boxes to check. Aid for one another can flow like water. Care for one another can be freely given. We collect our offerings in the spirit of joy and the mindset of abundance. While we enjoy this gift of music, you can use the envelopes in the pews or the links on the screens to make your own gift today.

### Offertory Music: "Who is my Mother, Who is my Brother?" — Cary Lee, soloist; Elisabeth Ellis, pianist
[40:53]
Who is my mother, who is my brother,
All those who gather around Jesus Christ.
Spirit-born people, born from the gospel,
Sit at the table around Jesus Christ.

Love will relate us, call us, set us,
Can't segregate us, around Jesus Christ.
Family faring, human deerlings,
All are accepted around Jesus Christ.

Bound by one vision, met for one mission,
We claim each other around Jesus Christ.
Here is my mother, here is my brother,
Kindred in spirit through Jesus Christ.
Kindred in spirit through Jesus Christ.

### Doxology: "For the Beauty of the Earth" — UMH #92, v4
[42:49]
For the joy of human love, brother, sister, parent, child, friends on earth and friends above, for all gentle thoughts and mild; Lord of all, to thee we raise this our hymn of grateful praise.

### Prayer of Dedication

**Pastor Jackie:**
[43:28]
We dedicate our offerings to our works and our contemplation, oh steadfast hope. May our care for one another and our spiritual practices expand out in the world, weaving widely and expansive ways of life. Amen. Please be seated.

### The Sacrament of Holy Communion
[44:03]
Friends online with us at this moment or later, God is both present here and now, and also beyond time and space. Please prepare a solid and liquid to celebrate the Great Thanksgiving with us.

In the United Methodist Church, we practice open communion. This is Christ's table. All are welcome here and all means all. You need not be a member of this church or of the United Methodist Church. You need not be baptized or of a certain age. Who among us can really understand the mystery of God's grace, mercy, presence, and love fully? Come trusting that nothing, no matter what we have done and or did not do, can separate us from the love of God in this life and in the life to come. Come desiring the scandalously abundant love of God, with and for all creation.

The bread of life. The cup of Christ's love. Let us now join together in the responsive communion as projected on our screen.

**Pastor Jackie:**
The Lord be with you.

**Congregation:**
And also with you.

**Pastor Jackie:**
Lift up your hearts.

**Congregation:**
We lift them up to the Lord.

**Pastor Jackie:**
Let us give thanks to the Lord our God.

**Congregation:**
It is right to give God thanks and praise.

**Pastor Jackie:**
It is right and a good and joyful thing, always and everywhere to give thanks to you, Almighty God, creator of heaven and earth. In your expansive and unrestricted love, you created us in your image, and breathed into us the breath of life. When we turned away and our love failed, your love remained steadfast. You delivered us from captivity, made covenant to be our sovereign God, and spoke to us through the prophets. Remembering again how you have claimed us and loved us even before we were able to love you. We give you our thanks. And so, with your people on earth and all the company of heaven, we praise your name and join their unending hymn.

**Congregation:**
Holy, holy, holy Lord, God of power and might. Heaven and earth are full of your glory. Hosanna in the highest. Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. Hosanna in the highest.

**Pastor Jackie:**
Holy are you and blessed is your son, Jesus Christ. Through his abiding grace, he prepares and provides a table to nourish us in our life of faith. In all that is both tearful and joyful, we accept this welcoming invitation to be part of your faithful family. Having clothed ourselves in the teachings, we seek to follow Jesus's example of love. By the baptism of his suffering, death, and resurrection, you gave birth to your church, and made with us a new covenant by water and the spirit. When Jesus ascended, he promised to be with us always in the power of your word and Holy Spirit.

On the night in which he gave himself up for us, he took bread, gave thanks to you, broke the bread and gave it to his disciples, and said, "Take, eat. This is my body, which is given for you. Do this in remembrance of me."

When the supper was over, he took the cup, gave thanks to you, gave it to his disciples and said, "Drink from this, all of you. This is my blood of the new covenant, poured out for you and for the forgiveness of sins. Do this as often as you drink it in remembrance of me."

And so, in remembrance of these your mighty gifts in Jesus Christ, we offer ourselves in prayer and thanksgiving as a holy and living sacrifice. In union with Christ's offering for us, as we proclaim the mystery of faith.

**Congregation:**
Christ has died, Christ is risen, Christ will come again.

**Pastor Jackie:**
Pour out your Holy Spirit on us gathered here and on these gifts of bread and fruit of the vine. Make them be for us the bread of life and the quenching cup of blessing, that we may be for the world the body of Christ, redeemed by Christ, and empowered by the gifts of the Spirit. By your spirit, make us one with Christ, one with each other, and one in ministry to all the world. Through your son, Jesus Christ, with the Holy Spirit and your Holy Church, all honor and glory is yours, Almighty God, now and forever. Amen.

Because there is one loaf, we who are many are one body, for we all partake of the one loaf. The bread which we break is a sharing in the body of Christ. The cup over which we give thanks is a sharing in the life of Christ.

**Pastor Jackie:**
With faith in all the ways that God continues to trust us here and now with our humanness, and continues to show us what it means to love. Let us join together in saying the prayer of Jesus in the language most comfortable to you, or join me in using the words on the screen.

**Congregation:**
Our God, who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done, on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our trespasses, as we forgive those who trespass against us. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil, for thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory forever. Amen.

**Pastor Jackie:**
We use bread and grape juice here at First Church, and we use intinction for communion. The servers will also have a gluten-free option available at your request. We will form two lines down the center aisle. The server will give you a piece of bread and you may then dip that into the cup. If you prefer, you may use the small cups of grape juice that will be on the small tables to the side of each server, and then you can place those empty cups at the smaller table at the far end. If you prefer a blessing instead of receiving communion, please place your arms over yourself like so and we will provide a blessing.

Come, the table is set. Let us feast together.

### Closing Hymn: "Walk With Me" — TFWS #2242
[51:14]
Walk with me, I will walk with you,
And build the land that God has planned,
Where love shines through.
In Christ there is no East or West,
In Christ no South or North,
But one great fellowship of love,
Throughout the whole wide earth.

Walk with me, I will walk with you,
And build the land that God has planned,
Where love shines through.
My brother, you're the stranger now,
My sister, you're the outcast too.
Go with the needy on their way,
And build the land that God has planned.

Walk with me, I will walk with you,
And build the land that God has planned,
Where love shines through.
The fields are white to harvest now,
The hungry cry for bread,
And labor of the faithful few,
Is sorely needed now.

Walk with me, I will walk with you,
And build the land that God has planned,
Where love shines through.
And give us strength that we may love,
And courage that we may do.
And give us strength that we may love,
And courage that we may do.

## Sending Forth
[56:41]
**Pastor Jackie:**
Siblings in the family of Christ, let us now look at our upcoming opportunities to consider how to be responsible to and for each other to help lead one another to each person's explosive growth and change that leads to difference in our world.

Our first opportunity is Rally Day, Sunday, we want to give you a heads up that this will occur on um Sunday, September 7th. This is kind of our back to school Sunday when we get back to our typical schedules. Um so we'll have a rally Day, Sunday um with a all Church picnic in our Breezeway afterwards. We will also be celebrating our First Church debt free um celebration that day as well. More information will come uh for that in the upcoming weeks. Chris Russell is available out in the nex after the worship with his laptop. Uh, we have our Google sheet set up for the potluck. We will provide the main course and we ask everyone to bring sides um and desserts. And so you can see Chris Russell um at the bar around the uh uh stair that leads downstairs with his laptop and he will help get you signed up.

Next I will invite up John Locker. John, and I just want to give a huge thank you to John, our Wi-Fi was not working uh Friday and he came in on Saturday with Comcast and got it working so that we could have our live stream available today. So thank you, John.

**John Locker:**
[58:17]
Great. Uh, a few weeks ago I spoke to you about this proposal we have, uh, for advertising on our garage. Um, and by the way, I'm on trustees if people don't know that. And, um, we're inching closer to a final decision on this. I think it just needs approval of the Church Council. And I want to make it very clear that this is not an endorsement of some, you know, this buy-buy-buy mentality that's prevalent in our society. I don't think anyone's really excited that we're advertising, but we need more money to keep these facilities going. And so, I think it's critical that we do this. This is my own opinion. I'm not happy with the mechanism in place, but it's a solid proposal that gives us a predictable source of income, which we need. So, uh, this has been a month long, many months in the process and I'm, I need to single out Jim Schon because I can't imagine a more mindful and methodical, professional and sensitive approach to this whole matter than he's laid forth. It's, it's wonderful. And so, he and I are going to hang out after the service here and answer any questions, concerns, criticism, whatever. But, uh, this has already received approval of the Administrative Board which is comprised of Trustees, Finance and SPRC and goes for final vote on uh, Wednesday, I believe. So, but thank you.

**Pastor Jackie:**
[59:52]
Thank you, John and Jim and for many others for your work on that. Um, next I will invite up April who is going to give us an announcement um as we look ahead to the fall and uh back to school time.

**April:**
[01:00:12]
Hello, First Church. Um, so it's August, which means that the start of our ministry year is fast approaching. Uh, and so we're looking for uh Sunday school volunteers. Uh, it would be, I guess after after Rally Sunday, we're hoping to do Sunday school on the uh second and third Sundays of each month. Uh, and we're hoping to get people who could commit to doing volunteering at least uh one Sunday a quarter, though more is encour uh is very welcome. Um, and so you can uh talk to me after the service if you're interested. Uh, I'll have an um a uh QR code for an interest form. Um, Jackie, is that, does that cover everything I think? Okay.

**Pastor Jackie:**
[01:00:50]
Oh, yeah, it would uh occur during the service um usually following the uh the anthem, and then we'd come back for communion. Uh, another thing about uh Sunday School volunteers, you don't have to be very knowledgeable about theology or the Bible. Jackie and I will have the curriculum creation covered. You just need to be willing to come and um enjoy your time with being with uh children and youth. So. Thank you, April. And April is our new Children and Youth Ministry Coordinator. So I invite you to see her after the worship service and get to know her a little bit more. Uh, next I'm going to invite up Elizabeth who has a few announcements for us.

**Elizabeth Ellis:**
[01:01:33]
Hi, First Church. I'll go in the order the slides are. So, first, um, the month of August is People's Choice Hymns. We've got a QR code on the back of your bulletin. Um, usually the hymns are chosen by our preacher, our speaker of the day, but during the month of August, we want to hear from you which uh hymns you'd like to sing as a congregation. So, just use your QR code here. And if you can't figure that out, uh, you can also email me at elizabeth@firstchurchseattle.org. And let us know what hymns that you'd like and we'll try to program those. If we don't get to your hymn in the month of August, we'll keep a running list for the fall. Um, also the next slide. Open choir. So, you see we've got our lovely choir back. We've got about half of us here today, I think. Uh, the month of August is our very chill and relaxed entry back. It's not fall yet, but the end of summer is coming. So, if you would like to try out choir, this is the most low-key way you can do it. Just come on 9:30, uh, at 9:30 on Sunday mornings, and we practice right here. I'll just teach you the one song for the morning service. And it's a really nice way to try out choir and see if we're a fit for you. And then the third announcement. Yes, um, speaking of keeping it all in the family, I have two friends who are married opera singer couple. Uh, she's a soprano and he's a tenor. So, typical. Um, but they're really lovely. I actually met Shelley through Test. She sings at Seattle Opera. She's an amazing soprano and her husband is an amazing tenor. And um, they are going to come and join me and present this recital on August the 24th, immediately following the service. So, we'll have our service that morning with Dan Wolpert. You'll go get some snacks and then come right back in the sanctuary. It'll be about a 45-minute program full of favorites from musicals, the movies. You'll recognize almost every song we do and you'll love it. And that is free of charge and a donation will be uh taken for the music ministry. And then I want to call Tess up to tell us about something exciting she's doing tomorrow.

**Tess:**
[01:03:35]
Good morning, First Church. Um, I had shared with you a little while back that I received a fellowship from Seattle University where I'm music faculty to uh, venture out to the Philippines in search of solo song repertoire. Um, and bring it back here with as many folks as I possibly can. And um, it bears mentioning that while uh, this mission was sort of academic in nature, really actually the secret reason is very personal, and um, it's to really touch base with my heritage and my many cousins and aunties and uncles and my my family who's there, um, that I've never met before. So, uh, I have two research assistants. Uh, my daughter Grace, 14, and my partner's daughter Emily, who just turned 18. They're coming with me. And uh, we leave tomorrow. And uh, I'm just really excited to bring back some new song uh, literature to share with you all at a later date in a song recital that's just full of um, Philippine uh, solo song repertoire. So, excited about that.

**Pastor Jackie:**
[01:04:47]
Wonderful. Blessings for you on your trip and for your research and we look forward to hearing all about it and and um, your recital upon your return. We will keep you in our prayers throughout the next couple weeks. And now, let us please rise in body or spirit and join together in our closing hymn. Number 2242, walk with me in your black hymnal, or you may join uh with us through the words projected on the screens.

**Congregation:**
Walk with me, I will walk with you,
And build the land that God has planned,
Where love shines through.
In Christ there is no East or West,
In Christ no South or North,
But one great fellowship of love,
Throughout the whole wide earth.

Walk with me, I will walk with you,
And build the land that God has planned,
Where love shines through.
My brother, you're the stranger now,
My sister, you're the outcast too.
Go with the needy on their way,
And build the land that God has planned.

Walk with me, I will walk with you,
And build the land that God has planned,
Where love shines through.
The fields are white to harvest now,
The hungry cry for bread,
And labor of the faithful few,
Is sorely needed now.

Walk with me, I will walk with you,
And build the land that God has planned,
Where love shines through.
And give us strength that we may love,
And courage that we may do.
And give us strength that we may love,
And courage that we may do.

### Benediction

**Pastor Jackie:**
[01:07:15]
My dear sisters and brothers in Christ. Look around you. Look into the faces of your siblings. Appreciate the connection and shared purpose you find here. Now each of you go out into the world, confident that you are the members of a beloved part of this family. Then share that with everyone, everyone you meet. And all of God's children said,

**Congregation:**
Amen.

### Postlude: Improvisation on “In Christ There Is No East Or West” — Elisabeth Ellis, organist
[01:07:52]