---
date: 2026-03-22
title: Fifth Sunday in Lent
theme:
preacher: Pastor Jackie
sermon_title: Wilderness: A Place of New Life
scripture:
  - Ezekiel 37:1-14
  - John 11:1-3, 17, 32-44
---

# Fifth Sunday in Lent
## Gathering
[03:29]
### Prelude: "Guide Me, O Thou Great Jehovah" — Elisabeth Ellis, pianist

### Welcome and Announcements

**Pastor Elizabeth:**
Greetings in the name of Christ, good morning. My name is Pastor Elizabeth, my pronouns are she and her and it's my great joy to welcome you to this service of worship. I'm also so grateful for my colleague Pastor Jackie, who figures out all the things here at First Church that I don't know how to do. No matter who you are or where you come from or how many times you've been to church before or how much of your faith you feel like you've got figured out, I want you to know that you're welcome here. There is a place for you here. As all of us work to grow in our faith and to use that faith to change the world toward love and justice and peace.

And one of the ways that we do that is we acknowledge how we got to where we are, through our land acknowledgment. We acknowledge that we're on the unceded traditional homelands of the Duwamish, the first people of Seattle. We honor and respect members of the Duwamish tribe past and present, as well as the land and waters we share. We strive to live consciously and respectfully with one another, mindful of the sacredness of all God's creation.

I want to say a special welcome to those who are joining us online today. We welcome you. We hope that you will engage in all parts of the worship service as best you can. Even if it feels awkward to stand and sing in your home or your office. I guess if you're driving in the car, maybe don't stand, but you can still sing. And if you're want to participate in holy communion later in the service, we invite you to go ahead and get some bread and juice ready for that, or whatever you've got that's similar that you can use for the sacrament. We also want to say a special welcome to our friends from Trinity UMC who are here with us today, who will continue to be with us through Easter as they work on repairing the building after a fire. We're so grateful and just honored that you would choose to worship here, and we're so delighted by the ways that we will be changed by your presence, by the ways that we'll experience God in new ways because you are here.

We hope that everybody feels comfortable to participate in all parts of worship in whatever ways you can. That means singing aloud, even if someone told you once that you shouldn't. It means joining in our spoken liturgy together as you feel comfortable. It means everyone's welcome to come to the table of grace and be nourished for the journey. And it also means we welcome you as your full self. Even if you are fidgety and wandering, even if you are full of questions and doubts. We're so glad that you're here and hope that you can be your full self and feel safe in this space.

There are a couple of ways that we can engage more fully in the service and I invite Pastor Jackie to share those with us now.

**Pastor Jackie:**
Good morning, everyone. I'm Pastor Jackie. My pronouns are she and her. I'm the associate pastor here at First Church. We invite you at this time to go ahead and fill out your connection card. We have a QR code that will bring you to our digital form up there on the screen. If you are here in the sanctuary, there is a copy in your bulletin. There are also copies throughout the back of the pews. Let us know if any prayer requests you have, or other ministry areas you'd like to know more information about, and then drop it in the offering plate as it goes by later in the service, or feel free to bring it to me afterwards. You can also sign up for any of our upcoming opportunities and activities on there as well.

We encourage everyone to wear name tags and we have a QR code there that will bring you to our digital form so that you can request a name tag. We also have sticky name tags in the back if you would like to write your name on that as well as pronoun stickers. We have hearing assist devices available at the bottom of the steps to my right that lead up to the balcony. And we also have children's worship activity bags to my left on the small bookcase in the back. We love having kids in worship and it is a way for kids to be here in worship with us, engaging through the ways that they utilize the activities in those bags. And I'll pass it back to you, Pastor Elizabeth.

**Pastor Elizabeth:**
Today we continue in our observance of the season of Lent. These 40 days that prepares us for Easter. And as a community in Lent, we are sitting in the wilderness. I want to say wandering through, but sometimes it feels like we're not even moving when we get to those wilderness states. I think. And in the season, really we're just acknowledging that all of life has these seasons that feel like wilderness, that feel like isolation or dryness or where we're not sure what's coming or why things are happening the way they are. And so we invite you just to be in that in this service. We just sit in the wilderness and we see what it has for us. And today we wonder if the wilderness might also be a place of new life as we hear the story of Ezekiel and the dry bones. So as we begin our service, we invite our worship leader, Erin Elaine, and any children who would like to help us, to light the community candle.

### Lighting the Community Candle

**Erin Elaine Williams:**
Let us center ourselves for worship together as we light our community candle.

Whoever you are, wherever you find yourself today, across the spectrum of human existence, sexuality, gender, identity, ability or privilege, in a world full of questions and doubts, and the entirety of creation in peril, may this community be a place of companionship and healing for you.

There is nothing that can separate us from God's all-embracing love. Christ invites you, Christ invites us to find him in worship and celebration today.

### Call to Worship

**Erin Elaine Williams:**
Please rise in body or spirit and join together in the Call to Worship.

**One:** We have been in the wilderness -
**Congregation:** Discerning and working, seeking and dreaming.
**One:** We have been in the wilderness -
**Congregation:** Grieving and wondering, praying and hoping.
**One:** We have been in the wilderness -
**Congregation:** Longing and running, creating and waiting.
**One:** We have been in the wilderness, but we have not been alone; for God walks with us, every step of the way.
**Congregation:** So let us worship the God of our darkest nights and our brightest days.
**One:** Let us worship Holy God.

Let us join together in the opening hymn: "Love Divine, All Loves Excelling," Number 384 in the Red Hymnal.

### Opening Hymn: "Love Divine, All Loves Excelling" — UMH #384

Love divine, all loves excelling,
Joy of heaven, to earth come down,
Fix in us thy humble dwelling,
All thy faithful mercies crown.
Jesus, thou art all compassion,
Pure unbounded love thou art;
Visit us with thy salvation,
Enter every trembling heart.

Breathe, oh, breathe thy loving Spirit
Into every troubled breast;
Let us all in thee inherit,
Let us find thy promised rest.
Take away our bent to sinning,
Alpha and Omega be,
End of faith, as its beginning,
Set our hearts at liberty.

Come, almighty to deliver,
Let us all thy life receive;
Suddenly return, and never,
Nevermore thy temples leave.
Thee we would be always blessing,
Serve thee as thy hosts above,
Pray, and praise thee without ceasing,
Glory in thy perfect love.

Finish then thy new creation;
Pure and spotless let us be;
Let us see thy great salvation,
Perfectly restored in thee.
Changed from glory into glory,
Till in heaven we take our place,
Till we cast our crowns before thee,
Lost in wonder, love, and praise.

## Sermon: Wilderness: A Place of New Life
**Preacher:** Pastor Jackie
**Scripture:** Ezekiel 37:1-14; John 11:1-3, 17, 32-44

[02:59]
Let us pray. Let the words of my mouth and the meditations of our hearts be acceptable to you, O Lord. Our rock and our redeemer. Amen.

Many of us know the familiar story of Mount St. Helen's, La la la, in our region. In the wake of the volcanic eruption on May 18th, 1980, the landscape was significantly changed. Part of the top of the mountain was gone, greenery churned to gray, lifeless ash and dirt. And once vibrant forests were altered into still skeletons of trees strewn about.

My family visited Mount St. Helen's with my parents several years ago. The devastation to the local environment was still evident. And after visiting Mount Rainier, Tahoma, later that day, we could see what had been missing. Lush greenery, colorful wildflowers, and a thriving ecosystem. But it also gave us a new perspective on what we had learned earlier that day. Small components of the ecosystem had survived the volcanic blast, and there was evidence of the wildlife returning, some of it after decades of dormancy. New life was occurring on the once devastated mountain.

Throughout the seasons throughout the series in Lent, we have been exploring our journey in the wilderness. When we experience something unexpected, we can feel disoriented and displaced from a physical location, from reality, from what we had once known our life to be. It drains us of energy, of life, even sometimes. And we wonder how to find our way out.

Our Hebrew passage today comes from Ezekiel, who was both a priest and a prophet. Ezekiel and his community were in the wilderness, having been exiled to Babylon. But Ezekiel also experienced a personal wilderness. Having descended from a priestly line and been prepared for service in the Jerusalem Temple, suddenly and unexpectantly he found himself in a physical location where he could no longer perform his priestly duties. But God led Ezekiel to something new. At the age of 30, the same age that Ezekiel would have been ordained to assume his priestly duties in the temple, Ezekiel had his first vision. This vision would become his initiation into the life and vocation of a prophet. These traits of both priest and prophet helped Ezekiel provide hope to his community in their time of uncertainty, while also teaching them about the holiness of God.

Like other prophetic books, Ezekiel uses visions and oracles to communicate God's will for the gathered community. Visions often contain very vivid imagery, such as we see in the valley of the dry bones. It's used to portray a divine message to the community of faith. The vision that we read today is the third vision of four total, where Ezekiel is lifted and carried to the same place as his first vision.

God first describes how God will provide divine breath to this pile of dead dry bones, so that they will be transformed to once again come alive. A seemingly impossible task. After all, these weren't just bones in a valley. These are very dry bones. As my daughter reminds me, as she learned in health class, our physical bodies are composed of over 90% water. These bones have been drained of all water, all life. And we must wonder how close were they to turning back into dust themselves. Can we too be transformed as such to new life?

As Ezekiel is carried into the valley of the dry bones, we see bones strewn about across the valley floor, touching only the soil, the dirt, and perhaps each other. Our transformations are rooted in humility. We must first go back down to the ground, remembering the dust from which we once came. The dust we described as we entered this wilderness at the beginning of Lent on Ash Wednesday. Reminding ourselves that the very being of who we are starts with the breath of life from God, the creator, God, the sculptor, God, the potter. The ground is holy, after all, as God told Moses when he approached the burning bush, not long before leading his people towards liberation. To begin the process of transformation to new life, we must first ground ourselves spiritually, mentally, and physically with the holiness of God.

As the vision continues, our other senses are enlivened. We not only see, we hear, we feel as the bones begin to rattle and the earth must begin to move. The bones seem to rise from the ground and began to connect one to another. Our transformations are done in relationships. We support each other through the difficulties. These bones speak to our humanity, reminding us that we are all made of the same material, that we share together in many of the same trials and challenges we face, while still remembering our own uniqueness. God forms us in community. We are interconnected in relationship with one another, reminding ourselves that one being was formed from the bone of another. We are each beloved by the one to whom we belong, and we each hold sacred worth.

As the bones connect, tissue begins to form to tie them together. The flesh and the veins build up from the dry bones, and the skin begins to cover everything, while the intricacies of how they all work together is formed. Our transformations involve active patience. The process of change, of transformation can sometimes feel so painstakingly slow. When we are able to let go of trying to make the process work on our own timelines, we can lean into what may be possible that we have never considered before. To be open to where God is leading us. Our active patience may require intentional waiting, observing, and reflecting. One of the metaphors Parker Palmer uses in his book, "Let Your Life Speak," to describe the process of uncovering ourselves in transitional times of our lives is a metaphor of the seasons. Each season carries its own gifts and challenges. Sometimes we want to jump over the cold, dark trials of winter, but the hard work of transformation requires us to experience all the seasons and the lessons that each teaches us.

In this vision we then experience the most amazing, unbelievable thing. God breathes new life into what had once been a pile of bones scattered about. Objects that seemed to contain no possibility for life. It's reminiscent of the breath God breathed into us at the beginning of creation. The transformation is not complete until we receive the divine breath of God. New life comes from the one that created us, from the one that sustains us. Transformation is a divine process, occurring through God's transforming love, moving us in ways we never expected. This vision of God breathing new life into very dry bones was meant to bring hope to Ezekiel's community in exile. And so too, does it bring hope to us, as we consider how we may experience transformation in our own wildernesses.

When I think about the ways these bones rattle and move and come to life to create the most unexpected thing, it brings me so much joy. God reminds us that there is hope beyond the despair and joy beyond the sorrow. And yet, when we are struggling, it can sometimes be hard to allow our bones to get up and move. It can be hard to accept that there may be hope and joy around the corner with so much suffering, so much sorrow, so much despair in our world.

Recently, one of my clergy friends described how Empire, how the oppressor can't stand our hope or our joy. This hope, this joy that God provides, is at work to offset the earthly powers of this world that try to turn us away from God's redeeming love and God's transforming love. And just because we experience hope and joy, it doesn't mean that we leave behind everything that brought us into this wilderness, or that we experienced in this journey. We don't forget the hard times that we've had, or what we've lost. But we carry the grief alongside the hope, the regrets alongside the joy. As God leads us into new directions, and helps us discover new spiritual gifts, new interests, and new callings. What is coming to the surface for you in this time of transformation?

In the story of Lazarus rising from the dead, a shortened version which we read today, Jesus directs the gathered mourners to unbind Lazarus after bringing him back to life. Lazarus's transformation to new life isn't complete until he's let go of that which constrains him. And he needs the gathered community to help him in that process. We must let go of whatever is holding us back from transformation, whatever is preventing us from flourishing. We cannot always unbind ourselves from the constraints and limitations that we face, or from what is outside of our control. But as a community, we can do that work together. The possibility for transformation doesn't just apply to our own personal stories, but how how but also to how we relate to each other, to our interconnectedness of humanity, and as God's full creation.

And so we ask, what are the very dry bones of our time that thirst to receive the spirit of God so that all may flourish here on earth? Have we created dry bones in our society by losing touch with our humanness and our concern for each other globally? As we engage in unjust unjust violence, as we deny people the right to food, the right to clean water, and as we allow the economic gap to increase inspeakably between the wealthy and the poor, have we created dry bones in our society? And as we strip our earth of resources, as we pollute our air, our water, our soil, have we drained the life from our planet? And as we continue to act as colonizers by trying to take what isn't ours, do we continue to pile up more and more dry bones as we forget the ways we should relate to one another?

My spouse and I were recently discussing the indemnity that that Haiti had to pay their former colonizer to maintain their independence. Despite gaining their freedom in 1804, we were surprised to learn that it wasn't only until 1947 that the full sum of 150 million francs was paid off, per the United Nations. But what surprised us further was the number of other independent countries, many in Africa, that are still held to modern forms of colonial debt today, even if they're not called that, through unjust economic systems forced upon them by their former colonizers. This may seem irrelevant to us. But we shouldn't forget how our former practices of colonization continue to impact indigenous communities today, and how we often continue to operate under a colonizer mindset, especially in how we relate to nations and places that have something we want and that we deem unfit.

I find it interesting to consider how our bones are the structural component of our physical bodies. And yet, sometimes it is our old systems and structures that need to die away to ash. Just think of the possibilities for all of God's beloved across the globe. If only we were to embrace the hope that comes from the new life, the new creation that God promises. Early in the vision, God asks Ezekiel, "Mortal, can these bones live?" Ezekiel in his humbleness responds, "O Lord God, you know." God has shown us what is possible, and so maybe now God addresses this question to us. "Mortal, can these bones live?"

Friends, are you ready for your dry bones to live? Wherever you find yourself on the wilderness journey today, as you move into that space where signs of life seem to be drying up. Where we look around and see nothing but despair and fear. Overcast with anxiety as the mountains around us seem to grow taller and taller still. When we sit in discomfort, thinking we can move no further, accept no more change, no more challenges, no more unknowns. Know that God hears us as we cry out from the depths of our deepest valleys. Hope is there. Beyond the peaks, beyond the valleys. Hope is in God's presence with us. God does the unexpected. God's spirit moves over and through us so that we may be transformed through our humility, through our interconnectedness, through our active patience, and through the divine love that calls us into something new. These bones, these dry, very dry bones shall live. All glory be to God. Amen.

### Special Music: "All Things New" — Elaine Hagenberg, Sanctuary Choir; Elisabeth Ellis, director and pianist
**Elisabeth Ellis:**
[05:12]
<singing in Latin>
All will be made new.
<singing in Latin>
All will be made new.
<singing in Latin>
All will be made new.

## Responding
[05:54]
### Sung Prayers of the People

**Elisabeth Ellis:**
This morning we will sing our prayers together. You have a copy of the prayer song in your bulletin, or there's some larger print copies floating around in the back of the pew. I'll lead us in singing the verses and invite you to join in everywhere we sing, "Hear our prayer, O God." And we'll sing the choruses together.

Let us pray.

For all who labor without end,
Hear our prayer, O God.
For all who lonely seek a friend,
Hear our prayer, O God.
For all who grieve and all who fear,
Hear our prayer, O God.
For all who wait as death draws near,
Hear our prayer, O God.

**Congregation:**
Holy Healer, your people call your name,
Send your Spirit, hear our prayer.
Holy Healer, your people call your name,
Send your Spirit, hear our prayer.

For all who search for righteousness,
Hear our prayer, O God.
And live the faith that they confess,
Hear our prayer, O God.
For those with whom our lives are bound,
Hear our prayer, O God.
And those we name in silent sound,
Hear our prayer, O God.

**Congregation:**
Holy Healer, your people call your name,
Send your Spirit, hear our prayer.
Holy Healer, your people call your name,
Send your Spirit, hear our prayer.

That peace may come in our own day,
Hear our prayer, O God.
That your blest word may light our way,
Hear our prayer, O God.
Your name be hallowed for and wide,
Hear our prayer, O God.
Your reign of justice long abide,
Hear our prayer, O God.

**Congregation:**
Holy Healer, your people call your name,
Send your Spirit, hear our prayer.
Holy Healer, your people call your name,
Send your Spirit, hear our prayer.

Send your Spirit, hear our prayer.

Amen.

### Invitation to the Offering

**Pastor Elizabeth:**
We respond to God's grace by offering our prayers, presence, gifts, service, and witness for the transformation of the world. While we enjoy this beautiful gift of music, you're invited to use the envelopes in the pews or the QR codes on the screens to make a gift to First Church. Will the ushers please come forward.

### Offertory Music: "Panis Angelicus" — Cesar Franck, Maryn and Jenna Arenivar, soloists; Elisabeth Ellis, pianist
<singing in Latin>

### *Doxology: "O Love, How Deep" v. 6 — UMH #267

**Congregation:**
All glory to our Lord and God -
for love so deep, so high, so broad:
the Trinity whom we adore,
forever and forevermore.

### *Prayer of Dedication

**Pastor Elizabeth:**
Will you pray with me?

Life-giving Spirit, you breathe hope into our valleys of despair and call forth life where we saw only dry bones. We come today, not out of habit, but out of longing to be part of your work that restores, renews, and redeems. Take these gifts and use them to roll away the stones that keep your people bound. Let them be signs of trust, symbols of resurrection, and tools of transformation in a weary world.

May our offering, like our living, lean into your spirit and testify that life, abundant, eternal, and holy is possible in you. In Christ who calls us out of the grave and into your grace, we pray.

Amen.

### The Sacrament of Holy Communion

**Pastor Jackie:**
During this season of Lent, we acknowledge that none of us is perfect, and none of us can do the life of faith on our own. We need God's help and we need each other. Therefore, we confess our sins, not as a way of beating ourselves up for our mistakes, but as a way of naming our humanness and our need before God. First we'll take a moment to do this personally and silently, then it leads us in the prayer of confession that will be on the screens.

Gracious God, you invite us to plant a garden of love and harmony. But we grow weeds of prejudice and hatred. You invite us to sow joy and gratitude. But we scatter seeds of greed and envy. You call us to tend the soil of fear and denial. But instead, we close our eyes and let the earth suffer. Forgive us. You invite us to plant a garden and we lost ourselves in the wilderness. Clear our hearts, breathe life into these weary bones, and grant us a fresh start. Gratefully we pray. Amen.

Hear the good news. Christ died for us while we were yet sinners. That proves God's love towards us. In the name of Jesus Christ, you are forgiven.

**Congregation:**
In the name of Jesus Christ, you are forgiven.

**Pastor Jackie:**
Glory to God. Amen.

As people forgiven and reconciled to God, we invite you now to reconcile with one another, greeting each other with signs of Christ's peace. If you're worshiping online, we invite you to greet someone else in your household or even to call or text somebody with a greeting or to make a note to do so later today. And if you're here in person and you'd like a touchless greeting, we invite you just to put your hand over your heart. The peace of Christ be with you all.

**Congregation:**
And also with you.

### Call to Discipleship

**Pastor Elizabeth:**
I invite our servers to go ahead and prepare the elements. And before I welcome you to the table, I just want to tell you that you are so beautiful when you're singing Hosanna in the highest. Everyone's head comes up and I wish we could do it forever. I want to take a video every Sunday and that would be so tacky. So I, I don't, but I want you to know how lovely you are when you're singing. I want to remind you that this is not First Church's table. It's not the table of the United Methodist Church, but this is Christ's table. And Christ invites all who long to come to be fed by the bread of life, or even all who want to long to come, even that is faith enough. And so if you want to grow closer to God, if you want to be fed by this gift of grace, or if you even want to want to, that's the reason enough to come and we invite you to do so. We'll be inviting you to come down the center aisle with your hands outstretched to receive this gift of grace and we'll give you a little piece of bread, which you can take and dip just the bread and not your fingers into the cup and take both together, or if you're not comfortable with the common cup, we have individual cups of juice on both sides and you're welcome to take one of those and just put the empty cup in the trays on the outside aisles when you're finished. There's gluten-free elements at both sides. And if you'd prefer to be served in your seat, if it's hard to come forward, we'd be glad to bring the elements to you. The table is set, the feast is prepared, and you're all invited. Won't you come?

<singing in Latin>

**Pastor Elizabeth:**
who at supper with his disciples took the bread. And when he had given thanks, he broke it and gave it to his disciples and said, "Take, eat, all of you. This is my body, given for you. Do this in remembrance of me."

And when the supper was over, he took the cup. And when he had given thanks, he gave it to his disciples and said, "Drink of this, all of you. This is my blood of the new covenant, poured out for you and for many for the forgiveness of sins. Do this in remembrance of me."

And so in remembrance of these your mighty acts in Jesus Christ, we offer ourselves in praise and thanksgiving, as a holy and living sacrifice. In union with Christ's offering for us, as we proclaim the mystery of faith.

**Congregation:**
Christ has died, Christ is risen, Christ will come again.

**Pastor Elizabeth:**
Resurrecting God, where you, where your people are in the valley of the shadow of death, bring them your words of prophecy and hope. Where they are in the place of stench and decay, give them the balm of your healing and forgiveness. Where they are under the weight of grief and depression, roll away the stone. Make us your church, a place where dust can dream, where dry bones become flesh, where nobody's become your body. Reveal through Lazarus a foretaste of the resurrection of all creation. When every tearful eye will gaze upon your consolation and every weary throat be filled with your song. Until every stone is rolled from every tomb and you sit in glory, the resurrection and the life, one God now and forever. Amen.

### Benediction

**Pastor Elizabeth:**
Let us pray.

Oh God, we give you thanks for this holy mystery in which you've given yourself to us. Grant that we might go into the world in the strength of your spirit to give ourselves for others. We ask this and all things in Christ's name. Amen.

**Pastor Elizabeth:**
I invite our servers to go ahead and prepare the elements. And before I welcome you to the table, I just want to tell you that you are so beautiful when you're singing Hosanna in the highest. Everyone's head comes up and I wish we could do it forever. I want to take a video every Sunday and that would be so tacky. So I, I don't, but I want you to know how lovely you are when you're singing. I want to remind you that this is not First Church's table. It's not the table of the United Methodist Church, but this is Christ's table. And Christ invites all who long to come to be fed by the bread of life, or even all who want to long to come, even that is faith enough. And so if you want to grow closer to God, if you want to be fed by this gift of grace, or if you even want to want to, that's the reason enough to come and we invite you to do so. We'll be inviting you to come down the center aisle with your hands outstretched to receive this gift of grace and we'll give you a little piece of bread, which you can take and dip just the bread and not your fingers into the cup and take both together, or if you're not comfortable with the common cup, we have individual cups of juice on both sides and you're welcome to take one of those and just put the empty cup in the trays on the outside aisles when you're finished. There's gluten-free elements at both sides. And if you'd prefer to be served in your seat, if it's hard to come forward, we'd be glad to bring the elements to you. The table is set, the feast is prepared, and you're all invited. Won't you come?

### Song of Blessing: "Lord, Dismiss Us with Thy Blessing" (v. 1) — UMH #671

**Congregation:**
Lord, dismiss us with thy blessing,
Fill our hearts with joy and peace;
Let us each, thy love possessing,
Triumph in redeeming grace.
O refresh us, O refresh us,
Traveling through this wilderness.

**Pastor Elizabeth:**
I invite you to stay after worship and join our Adult Spirituality class in room 301 upstairs. That's the room all the way to my left at the end. They will be discussing the sermon today, so no need to have read anything beforehand. All are welcome. And just a reminder that throughout this season of Lent, we don't have a postlude. Instead, we will be singing together a song of blessing after the benediction. So after that, come and greet us in the back. Hand us your connection cards, but don't sit. There is no postlude. It's just slides with announcements. And now hear these words of benediction. As we leave this place and continue in the wilderness, and as we seek to be transformed by God's life-giving breath, so that our dry bones can become full of life. May the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ, and the love of God, fill you with all joy and peace in believing, so that you may abound in hope by the power of the Holy Spirit. Amen.