date: 2026-03-01
title: Second Sunday in Lent
theme:
preacher: Pastor Elizabeth
sermon_title: Wilderness: A Place of Mystery
scripture:
  - Psalm 121:1-8 (NRSVUE)
  - John 3:1-17 (NRSVUE)
---
# Second Sunday in Lent
## Gathering
[00:30]
### Prelude
**Seiko Werts:**
[piano music]

### Welcome and Announcements
**Pastor Elizabeth:**
Greetings in the name of Christ, good morning.

**Congregation:**
Good morning.

**Pastor Elizabeth:**
My name is Pastor Elizabeth, I'm the interim senior pastor here. My pronouns are she and her, and it's my great joy to welcome you to this service of worship. If you're listening in because you're on your way and you're stuck in traffic because of the hot chocolates, I just want to encourage you to take a deep breath and get here safely, and there will still be plenty of worship when you arrive.

As we get started, we want to acknowledge that we're on the unceded traditional homelands of the Duwamish, the first people of Seattle. We honor and respect members of the Duwamish tribe past and present, as well as the land and the waters that we all share. We strive to live consciously and respectfully with one another, mindful of the sacredness of all God's creation.

And we want to remind you that you are sacred too. And no matter where you've come from, or what your past has been, or how many times you've been to church before, that you are welcome in this place. That there is a place for you here at First Church, that you belong here. That there's a community for you here, and we hope that you will participate in worship at any level that you feel comfortable. That includes those of you who are worshipping online. We hope that you'll stand and sing when we stand and sing. We hope that you'll participate in Holy Communion later in the service. And to get ready for that, we invite you to go ahead and get some bread and juice ready, or whatever you have that's close to that, so that we can all gather around the table of grace together, even if we are in different places.

Now I'll ask Pastor Jackie to give us some tips on engaging well in worship today.

**Pastor Jackie:**
Thank you. Good morning, everyone.

**Congregation:**
Good morning.

**Pastor Jackie:**
My name is Pastor Jackie, my pronouns are she and her. I am the associate pastor for congregational and community engagement here at First Church. We invite you at this time to go ahead and fill out those connection cards. We've got a QR code there that will bring you to the digital form. If you're here in the sanctuary, there is a paper copy in your bulletin as well as in the back of the pews. Go ahead and leave any prayer requests, note any ministry areas that you like to know more information about, drop it in the offering plate as it goes by later in the service, or feel free to bring it to me afterwards.

We also have a form for name tags. You can get to it with the QR code there. We ask everyone to wear their name tags, that of course I forgot again today. It helps us welcome one another. We also have hearing assist devices available. That can be found at the bottom of the steps that lead up to the sanctuary. And children's activity worship bags can be found to the left on top of the little bookshelf back there. During Women's History Month in March, the United Methodist Church recognizes and commemorates the significant roles women have played throughout Methodist history as influential leaders, dedicated missionaries, and committed reformers. Check out our E-News using the QR codes in the back of your bulletin for a link to a list of book and resources about Methodist women. And now I'll pass it back to Pastor Elizabeth.

**Pastor Elizabeth:**
Today in the midst of all the suffering and uncertainty of the world, including our own nation committing violent atrocities against other nations. We gather to hear the words of scripture, to sing the songs of the faith together, to gather around the table of grace, to be nourished for the journey. And in doing so, we hope to have an encounter with the living God who is present among us. As we begin our worship then, I invite Kurt to lead us in our community candle ritual.

### Lighting the Community Candle
**Kurt Armbruster:**
Let us center ourselves for worship today, as we light our community candle. Whoever you are, wherever you find yourself today, across the spectrum of human existence, sexuality, gender, identity, ability, or privilege, in a world full of questions and doubts, and the entirety of creation in peril. May this community be a place of companionship and healing for you. There is nothing that can separate us from God's all-embracing love. Christ invites you. Christ invites us to find him in worship and celebration today.

### Special Music: "Hymn of Promise" — arr. Ellis, Sanctuary Choir; Seiko Werts, Director and Pianist
**Sanctuary Choir:**
In the bulb there is a flower, in the seed an apple tree,
in the cocoons a hidden promise, butterflies will soon be free.
In the cold and snow of winter, there's a spring that waits to be,
unrevealed until its season, something God alone can see.

In the song there is a silence, seeking word and melody,
in the tone there is a darkness, bringing hope to you and me.
From the past will come the future, what it holds a mystery,
unrevealed until its season, something God alone can see.

In our end is our beginning, in our time eternity,
in our doubt there is believing, in our life, eternity.
In our death, the resurrection, at the last, the victory,
unrevealed until its season, something God alone can see.
Amen.

**Kurt Armbruster:**
Please rise in body or spirit and join together in the call to worship.

### Call to Worship
**Kurt Armbruster:**
We come to worship, hoping to encounter God.

**Congregation:**
Hoping we may ask questions to be whole.

**Kurt Armbruster:**
We look for direction, and sometimes we find it.

**Congregation:**
But sometimes we don't.

**Kurt Armbruster:**
May we sit with the mystery of the wilderness.

**Congregation:**
And even find wisdom in the unknown.

**Kurt Armbruster:**
May we look to God for strength.

**Congregation:**
Even when things don't make sense.

**Kurt Armbruster:**
May we trust that, while we won't always understand.

**Congregation:**
God's love for the world remains steadfast.

**Kurt Armbruster:**
And please remain standing and join together in the opening hymn, "O God, Our Help in Ages Past."

### Opening Hymn: "O God, Our Help in Ages Past" — UMH #117
**Congregation:**
O God, our help in ages past, our hope for years to come,
our shelter from the stormy blast, and our eternal home.

Under the shadow of thy throne, thy saints have dwelt secure;
sufficient is thine arm alone, and our defense is sure.

Before the hills in order stood, or earth received her frame,
from everlasting thou art God, to endless years the same.

A thousand ages in thy sight are like an evening gone;
short as the watch that ends the night, before the rising sun.

Time, like an ever-rolling stream, bears all its sons away;
they fly forgotten, as a dream dies at the opening day.

O God, our help in ages past, our hope for years to come,
be thou our guide while life shall last, and our eternal home.

## Proclaiming the Word
[15:15]
### Hebrew Bible Reading: Psalm 121 (NRSVUE)
**Craig Sheppard:**
The first reading for this Sunday of Lent is from Psalm 121.

I lift up my eyes to the hills. From where will my help come? My help comes from the Lord, who made heaven and earth. He will not let your foot be moved. He who keeps you will not slumber. He who keeps Israel will neither slumber nor sleep. The Lord is your keeper. The Lord is your shade at your right hand. The sun shall not strike you by day, nor the moon by night. The Lord will keep you from evil. He will keep your life. The Lord will keep your going out and your coming in from this time on and forevermore.

### Gospel Reading: John 3:1-17 (NRSVUE)
**Greg Wallace:**
Good morning. The Gospel reading this morning is from John chapter 3:1-17.

Now there was a Pharisee named Nicodemus, a leader of the Jews. He came to Jesus by night and said to him, "Rabbi, we know that you are a teacher who has come from God, for no one else can do these signs that you do unless God is with that person." Jesus answered him, "Very truly I tell you, no one can see the kingdom of God without being born from above." Nicodemus said to him, "How can anyone be born after having grown old? Can one enter a second time into the mother's womb and be born?" Jesus answered, "Very truly I tell you, no one can enter the kingdom of God without being born of water and spirit. What is born of the flesh is flesh, and what is born of the spirit is spirit. Do not be astonished that I said to you, 'You must be born from above.' The wind blows where it chooses, and you hear the sound of it, but you do not know where it comes from or where it goes. So it is with everything who is born of the spirit." Nicodemus said to him, "How can these things be?" Jesus answered him, "Are you the teacher of Israel, and yet you do not understand these things? Very truly I tell you, we speak of what we know and testify to what we have seen, yet we do not receive our testimony. If I have told you about earthly things and you do not believe, how can you believe if I tell you about heavenly things? No one has ascended into heaven except the one who has descended from heaven, the Son of Man. And just as Moses lifted up the serpent into the wilderness, so must the Son of Man be lifted up, that whoever believes in him may have eternal life. For God so loved the world that he gave his only Son so that everyone who believes in him may not perish and may have eternal life. Indeed, God did not send the Son into the world to condemn the world, but in order that the world might be saved through him." This is the word of life.

**Congregation:**
Thanks be to God.

**Pastor Elizabeth:**
Thank you.

### Sermon: Wilderness: A Place of Mystery
**Preacher:** Pastor Elizabeth
**Scripture:** John 3:1-17

It's nothing like racing in and it's exactly your part when you walk in the door. Thank you.

Let us pray.

Oh God, may the words of my mouth and the meditations of all of our hearts be found pleasing in your sight. For you are our rock and our redeemer. Amen.

As someone who went to seminary, someone who went through the ordination process, I have been invited or required to share the story of what led me to become a pastor more times than I can count. Pastor Jackie, is this true? This is true. And since I first discerned a call to ministry as a teenager, I have always started that story the same way, with the same sentence, which says, "I cannot remember a time in my life when I didn't love Jesus and want to follow him."

And I know that isn't the case for everyone. I know many people come to faith later in life, or people start out in church and then wander for a while, and some come back and not all do. But that has not been the case for me. I can remember even at four years old, reciting the Apostle's Creed alongside the grown-ups in my United Methodist Church in Jackson, Mississippi, and hoping that I understood the vocabulary enough to believe what I was saying. When Facebook first came out and invited everyone to put quotations on their profiles, when I was a young adult, one of the quotes I put on mine was the old Hebrew saying that says, "I believe with all my belief in the coming of the Messiah, and even if there is a delay, I believe."

Faith is listed as a spiritual gift in 1st Corinthians 12, and I think this is what it means: that I have believed in God for as long as I have done anything. And even when my belief has waned somewhat, I have believed that it would return, and it always has. And I thank God for that. But throughout my life, I've had others feel very uncomfortable with my story. There are many who are under the impression that for faith to count for anything, there has to be a before and an after. That there must be a time before belief, and then there must be a moment when that lack of belief is transformed into faith, and it's really best if it happens in a somewhat dramatic way. And that moment in which one goes from unbelief to belief is what it means to be born again.

Many people take the language from this story, the one we just heard about Nicodemus, and they say that you must be born again to have some kind of dramatic conversion in order to be saved, by which they mean get a ticket to go to heaven after you die. So when I say, "I don't have that moment. I don't have a before to create an after. I've just always loved Jesus." What these people hear is, Pastor Elizabeth is not going to heaven. And they are then justifiably and even compassionately concerned about that. They have stories in which their lives were dark and full of sin, and then they met Jesus, and they said a prayer in which they invited Jesus into their hearts, and they then got baptized, always by immersion, a full dunking in the pool, and since then, their lives have been brighter and more hope-filled, and they understand that this means they are born again, that they are saved. And if you have had that kind of experience, I praise God for the new life you have found.

But I don't think everyone has to have that kind of born again experience to be a Christian. And what's more, is that I really don't think that's what the story of Nicodemus is about.

In John 3, Nicodemus comes to see Jesus one night. And Nicodemus already knows something about Jesus, about the signs he is performing. In the chapter before, Jesus has just turned water into wine at a wedding, and word is spreading about what he can do. But the conversation that Nicodemus and Jesus have is incredibly confusing. All Nicodemus says to Jesus is, "We," meaning the Pharisees, "know that you're a teacher who has come from God, because you are able to do these amazing signs." It's not even a question, it's a statement. And Jesus responds by saying, "No one can see the kingdom without being born again," or you can translate that born anew or born from above. And I have to wonder if somewhere back a long time ago, someone was copying this down and they skipped a line, because this doesn't make sense. Nicodemus says, "We know you've come from God," and Jesus says, "You have to be born again." That doesn't follow.

But the author of John's Gospel is intentional about telling us that Nicodemus is a Pharisee. And he does that because that tells us something about who Nicodemus is. Nicodemus comes from a culture that believes that the whole world has to be purified to prepare for God's coming redemption. And the way you purify the world is by following the ritual laws. It's a system that values hierarchy and order and boundaries, that has a very clear understanding of what's clean and unclean, of who is in and who is out. In other words, Nicodemus has a very clear program for faith, one he might be able to track on a spreadsheet. And at the same time, he's part of a Jewish faith in which lineage is of high importance. Who birthed you matters. Whether you can trace your lineage back to Abraham matters, because that's how you know you belong. That's how you know you're a child of the covenant. So we know right at the top that Nicodemus has the right heritage, that he's born with qualifications, that he has followed a program for faithfulness to the letter. He is an outstanding religious adherent.

And then he hears something about Jesus and it stirs him. There's a restlessness in him. And it draws him to go see Jesus. It draws him into Jesus' presence, into conversation with Jesus, even into relationship with Jesus, if you will. And the conversation doesn't go all that well. Perhaps in part because Jesus keeps dropping these non-sequiturs. But also, because Nicodemus takes Jesus too literally. He hears, "You have to be born again," and takes the most literal interpretation possible, saying, "I just don't think that anybody can enter their mother's womb a second time." Well, duh, Nicodemus, nobody thinks that. And no mother would agree to that, if you could. So you kind of imagine Jesus rolling his eyes here. Because clearly he didn't mean, "Get back in the womb and be born a second time."

But we have to defend Nicodemus a little bit too, because Jesus doesn't really explain himself here. He just keeps going. Jesus keeps pushing through and says, "No one can enter the kingdom of God without being born of water and the spirit." And then he talks about the wind blowing where it will. And Nicodemus asks the question, "How can these things be?" And that's all we hear from Nicodemus in this story. He comes back twice more in the Gospel of John, first in chapter 7 where he sort of accidentally defends Jesus, and then again when he brings an absurd amount of spices to anoint Jesus' body in chapter 19. But we never really get clarity on Nicodemus' faith or whether he understood what Jesus was saying. Instead, after Nicodemus asks his question in today's story, Jesus, or it might be the narrator of John's Gospel, it's all very unclear, just gives a confusing monologue about earthly and heavenly things, and then tells us the most famous verse in the whole New Testament, "For God so loved the world." And none of it really seems to make a lot of sense. And I have to wonder if that might be the point.

I think part of what went wrong in the conversation between Jesus and Nicodemus, is that Nicodemus tried to keep it all boxed up. He launched into his relationship with Jesus with some expectation of predictability. And Jesus did not follow his direction. Instead, Jesus blew open the doors on Nicodemus' faith, and told him that his vision of God was too small. And maybe that was too much for Nicodemus to handle at that moment, since he disappeared and left us listening to the story without him. But I wonder if part of what this story is supposed to tell us is that faith is intended to be a place of mystery. A place where we may not understand everything. Which I know might be very frustrating for many of us. But maybe this story is telling us that faith is a place where we need to let go of our preconceived notions about how things work or who is right. Where we may need to rethink what we learned as children or our expectations of God. And the letting go may very well involve some grief. Maybe that's why Nicodemus disappeared. Because he needed some space to come to terms with what Jesus was saying. But if our faith, like Nicodemus', looks like a program we can complete, it's likely that we are trying to earn our salvation. That we're trying to save ourselves. And that's not how it works.

You see, there's a version of faith that can explain everything. It's the version that tells people everything happens for a reason. It's the version that says, "All of this is part of God's plan." It usually says, "Do these things and you'll get these results." Sometimes it says, though usually subtly, "Here is the formula for how you save yourself." And that version of faith might sound pretty good to us. Because we want to control things, we want to understand things. We don't want to be surprised by anything, at least in part because we believe that if our faith is explainable, if there is a formula or a theory that we can follow, we might be able to avoid pain and suffering. But there's another version of faith that opens everything up. That increases our tolerance for uncertainty and complexity. That accepts that God is bigger than anything we can understand or control. Which means there may be suffering. But also, that much more is possible than what we can fit in our boxes or on our spreadsheets. Because if our faith offers guarantees, if it is certain, then we have no room in our lives for hope, or courage, or even community. Certainty actually eliminates the very best parts of life and faith, and the only thing you get in return is to be certain.

Theologian Stanley Hauerwas says that the ability to live well, the ability to embrace the abundant life that Jesus says he came to offer us in John 10, that ability is the ability to live without explanation. Because what we need at our core isn't explanation, it's not certainty, it's presence. And that's what Jesus is: the very presence of God. To receive him, we have to let go of certainty, of predictability, of control. And that can be really hard. But when we embrace that faith, the faith of mystery, we're on the road to abundant life.

New Testament scholar Jamie Clark-Soules wrote, "Nicodemus can't seem to let go of the ordinary, the literal, the program, to make room for the extraordinary. He clings to what he already knows, and wants everyone and everything to stay in their lane, to fit into his preconceived categories. But Jesus invites Nicodemus and invites us to let go of certainty and instead embrace the mystery that leads to abundant life." It's so crazy that in this story, Nicodemus asks Jesus for a program. And what Jesus gives him is the wind.

Now, it's important to know here that everywhere we hear the English words, "wind" and "spirit" in this story, it's all the same Greek word, Pneuma, which also means breath. And in John's Gospel, when we talk about the Holy Spirit, there's sort of an understanding that we'll think of later, right before Jesus' ascension, after he's been resurrected, when he gives the Holy Spirit, the Pneuma, to the disciples. And when he does this, he doesn't hand the spirit to them, he breathes it on them. The Greek word there, I think it's so fascinating, is Emphysao. It's where we get our word Emphysema. Sema, like semaphore, it's like a sign, the sign of breathing. Emphysao is how Jesus breathes the spirit onto the disciples. And that word, Emphysao, at least the Greek version, is the same word that is used in Genesis chapter 2 when God first breathes the breath of life into Adam for the very first time to animate humanity. The spirit and the wind in this story of Nicodemus, they're the same breath that God breathed into Adam. It's the same spirit that courses through each of us with every breath, and we can't control it anymore than we can control the wind. It's like Jesus is saying here, "The reign of God is like the wind. It's like spirit. It's like breathing. It doesn't require a program. It invites surrender."

And there's irony in this for all of these well-intentioned folks who question faith stories like mine. Because they are looking for certainty, for a program, for a pattern. And then Jesus says, "Eternal life isn't a ticket, it's a relationship." Eternal life in this story is an encounter with the living God. It's the spirit that breathes into you and gives you the life worth living, the abundant life. That's also translated the life that really is life. The point has never been to master faith, or control it, or put it on a chart. It has always been to let go of your expectations so that your hands might be open to receive it.

Now, at the very end of the story, what Greg read for us this morning, the Gospel of John just totally blows Nicodemus' mind by saying, "Not only, God loves you individually, personally, just as you are. But also, at the same time, God loves the whole world, the whole cosmos. Even those who have never embraced the program. Even those who don't have the pedigree, who weren't born into the right family. Even those who are wild and undisciplined, the ones who think differently than you. God loves them too. And the way you know that is that Jesus gave himself."

So I don't know if your faith story sounds more like mine or like my friends who have had dramatic conversions. I don't know if you came toward the altar during a hymn and answered a call. Or if you're still not really sure whether you believe in God. And maybe the idea that it's all a mystery, that God is something we can't master, feels a little unsettling to you. But in this season, as we journey through the wilderness together, my prayer is that you'll open your hands to embrace the mystery. That you'll give yourself to the wind. That you'll breathe deeply in the spirit. And that when you ask with Nicodemus, "How can these things be?" You'll hear Jesus answering, "It's love. Love. Love." Amen.

### Moment for Reflection
**Seiko Werts:**
[piano music]

## Responding
[43:08]
### Sung Prayers of the People
**Pastor Elizabeth:**
I mentioned that the worship leaders might also forget that we've changed the worship order and you've just witnessed that. We're going to sing our prayers together this morning. You've got an insert in your bulletin with the music on it, or there's some larger print copies floating around in the back of the pews. I'll lead us in the prayers. I'll sing all the parts that look like the verses and invite you to join in everywhere we sing, "Hear our prayer, oh God," and we'll sing the choruses together as well. Let us pray.

**Congregation:**
For all who labor, without end, hear our prayer, oh God.
For all who lonely, seek a friend, hear our prayer, oh God.
For all who grieve and all who fear, hear our prayer, oh God.
And all who wait as death draws near, hear our prayer, oh God.
Holy Lord, your people call your name.
Send your spirit, hear our prayer.
Holy Lord, your people call your name.
Send your spirit, hear our prayer.

For all who search for righteousness, hear our prayer, oh God.
And live the faith that makes them less, hear our prayer, oh God.
Holy Lord, your people call your name.
Send your spirit, hear our prayer.
Holy Lord, your people call your name.
Send your spirit, hear our prayer.

Let peace be coming our own day, hear our prayer, oh God.
Let your blessed word be laid away, hear our prayer, oh God.
Reign be hallowed far and wide, hear our prayer, oh God.
Reign of justice long abide, hear our prayer, oh God.
Holy Lord, your people call your name.
Send your spirit, hear our prayer.
Holy Lord, your people call your name.
Send your spirit, hear our prayer.
Send your spirit, hear our prayer.

### Offertory Music: "Amazing Grace (My Chains Are Gone)" — Newton, Tomlin, and Giglio
**Seiko Werts:**
[piano music]

**Seiko Werts:**
Amazing grace, how sweet the sound, that saved a wretch like me.
I once was lost but now I'm found, was blind but now I see.

'Twas grace that taught my heart to fear, and grace my fears relieved.
How precious did my grace appear, the hour I first believed.

My chains are gone, I've been set free. My God, my Savior, has ransomed me.
And like a flood, His mercy reigns, an ending love, amazing grace.

The Lord has promised good to me. His word my hope secures.
He will my shield and portion be, as long as life endures.

My chains are gone, I've been set free. My God, my Savior, has ransomed me.
And like a flood, His mercy reigns, an ending love, amazing grace.

My chains are gone, I've been set free. My God, my Savior, has ransomed me.
And like a flood, His mercy reigns, an ending love, amazing grace.

The earth shall soon dissolve like snow, the sun forbear to shine.
But God who called me here below will be forever mine.
Will be forever mine.
You are forever mine.

### Doxology: "O Love, How Deep" — UMH #267
**Pastor Elizabeth:**
All glory to our Lord and God. For love so deep, so high, so broad. The Trinity whom we adore forever and forevermore. Amen.

**Congregation:**
Amen.

**Pastor Elizabeth:**
We'll keep practicing that.

### Prayer of Dedication
**Pastor Elizabeth:**
Let us pray.

Faithful God, you call us to trust in what we cannot yet see, to follow where you lead, to sit with mystery. In the shadows of our questions and uncertainty, you meet us with grace, rather than condemnation. Your love is not earned, but freely given. Receive these gifts we offer, not as payment or proof, but as signs of our hope and gratitude. Use them to share your transforming love with a world where so many still wander in the dark. Amen. You may be seated.

### Holy Communion
**Pastor Jackie:**
Christ, our Lord invites to his table all who love him, who earnestly repent of their sin, and who seek to live in peace with one another. Therefore, let us confess our sins before God with one another, using the prayer that's on the screens.

**Congregation:**
Merciful God, we confess that we have not loved you with our own whole heart. You have failed to be an obedient church. We have not done your will. We have broken your law. We have rebelled against your love. We have not loved our neighbors, and we have not heard the cry of the needy. Forgive us, we pray. Free us for joyful obedience, through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.

**Pastor Jackie:**
Hear the good news, that Christ died for us while we were yet sinners. That proves God's love toward us. In the name of Jesus Christ, you are forgiven.

**Congregation:**
In the name of Jesus Christ, you are forgiven. Glory to God. Amen.

**Pastor Jackie:**
As people forgiven and reconciled to God, I invite you now to reconcile with one another, greeting each other with the peace of Christ. If you are worshipping with us online, I invite you to share the peace with someone else in your household, or even to text a friend, or make a note to call someone later today to offer Christ's peace. If you are greeting in person and prefer not to be touched, simply just place your hand over your heart. The peace of Christ be with you all.

**Congregation:**
And also with you.

**Pastor Jackie:**
[inaudible conversation]

**Pastor Elizabeth and Pastor Jackie:**
And now we continue with our responsive Great Thanksgiving Prayer. The Lord be with you.

**Congregation:**
And also with you.

**Pastor Elizabeth and Pastor Jackie:**
Lift up your hearts.

**Congregation:**
We lift them up to the Lord.

**Pastor Elizabeth and Pastor Jackie:**
Let us give thanks to the Lord our God.

**Congregation:**
It is right to give our thanks and praise.

**Pastor Elizabeth and Pastor Jackie:**
It is right and a good and joyful thing always and everywhere to give thanks to you, almighty God, creator of heaven and earth. You brought all things into being and called them good. From the dust of the earth you formed us into your image and breathed into us the breath of life. When we turned away and our love failed, your love remained steadfast. When rain fell upon the earth for 40 days and 40 nights, you bore up the ark on the waters, save Noah and his family, and made covenant with every living creature on earth. When you led your people to Mount Sinai for 40 days and 40 nights, you gave us your commandments and made us your covenant people. When your people forsook your covenant, your prophet Elijah fasted for 40 days and 40 nights, and on your holy mountain, he heard your still small voice. And so with your people on earth and all the company of heaven, we praise your name and join their unending hymn.

**Congregation:**
Holy, Lord, God of power and might,
Heaven and earth are full of your glory.
Hosanna in the highest, hosanna in the highest, hosanna in the highest.
Blessed is the one who comes in the name of the Lord.
Hosanna in the highest, hosanna in the highest, hosanna in the highest.

**Pastor Elizabeth and Pastor Jackie:**
Holy are you and blessed is your son Jesus Christ. When you gave him to save us from our sin, your Spirit led him into the wilderness, where he fasted 40 days and 40 nights to prepare for his ministry. When he suffered and died on a cross for our sin, you raised him to life. Presented him alive to the apostles during 40 days and exalted him at your right hand. By the baptism of his suffering, death, and resurrection, you gave birth to your church. Delivered us from slavery to sin and death, and made with us a new covenant by water and the spirit. Now when we your people prepare for the yearly feast of Easter, you lead us to repentance, for sin and the cleansing of our hearts, that during these 40 days of Lent we may be gifted and graced to reaffirm the covenant you made with us through Christ. That on the night in which he gave himself up for us, Jesus took bread, and he gave thanks to you, and broke the bread, and gave it to his disciples and said, "Take, eat. This is my body, which is given for you. Do this in remembrance of me."

When the supper was over, he took the cup, and when he had given thanks, he gave it to his disciples and said, "Drink of this all of you. This is my blood of the new covenant poured out for you and for many for the forgiveness of sins. Do this as often as you drink it in remembrance of me." And so in remembrance of these your mighty acts in Jesus Christ, we offer ourselves in praise and Thanksgiving as a holy and living sacrifice, in union with Christ's offering for us, as we proclaim the mystery of faith.

**Congregation:**
Christ has died, Christ is risen, Christ will come again.
Hosanna in the highest, hosanna in the highest, hosanna in the highest.

**Pastor Elizabeth and Pastor Jackie:**
Pour out your Holy Spirit on us gathered here and on these gifts of bread and wine. Make them be for us the body and blood of Christ. That we may be for the world the body of Christ redeemed by his blood. By your spirit make us one with Christ, one with each other, and one in ministry to all the world, until Christ comes in final victory and we feast at his heavenly banquet. Through your son Jesus Christ, with the Holy Spirit in your holy church, all honor and glory is yours, almighty God, now and forever. Amen.

**Congregation:**
Amen, amen, amen.
Hosanna in the highest, hosanna in the highest, hosanna in the highest.

**Pastor Elizabeth:**
And now with the confidence of children of God, we pray together the prayer that Jesus taught his disciples, using the words of our hearts or the words that are on the screens.

**Congregation:**
Our God who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our trespasses as we forgive those who trespassed against us. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Amen.

**Pastor Elizabeth:**
As our servers prepare the elements, I'll remind you that this is not First Church's table, it's not the table of the United Methodist Church, but it's Christ's table. And all of you are invited to come and feast on the bread of life. You don't need to be a member of this congregation or any other. You'll be invited to come down the center aisles with your hands outstretched to just receive this gift of grace. You'll be given a piece of bread, which you can take and dip into the cup and take both elements together. Or if you'd prefer to have an individual cup of juice, those are available on both sides and you can take those and just leave the empty cups on the far tables. Gluten-free elements are available in both stations. And if you need to be served in your seat, rather than coming forward, just let us know and we'd be happy to bring the grace as God to you. The feast is prepared, the table's set, and there's enough for everyone. Won't you come?

**Seiko Werts:**
[piano music]

## Sending Forth
[70:02]
### Prayer of Dedication
**Pastor Elizabeth:**
Let us pray. Oh God, we give you thanks for this holy mystery, in which you've given yourself to us. Grant that we might go into the world in the strength of your spirit, to give ourselves for others. We ask this and all things in the name of Christ our Savior. Amen.

### Call to Discipleship
**Pastor Jackie:**
And so First Church, let us lean into that restlessness that we find ourselves in in the wilderness that draws us into relationship with Jesus. Let us accept Jesus' invitation to let go of uncertainty and to give ourselves to the wind, to the spirit, and follow Jesus in love. God's love for the whole world. We do that through our discipleship and we've got many opportunities for you to participate in those ways of discipleship. For the first one I will invite Dan up to talk about our upcoming Lunch and Learn that the Climate Justice working group is putting on.

**Dan Gustafson:**
Thank you, Jackie, and good morning, everyone. March 15th, two weeks from today is Umcor Sunday. And to coincide the Climate Justice Working Group is holding a Lunch and Learn that day. Uh, most attention, most funding that we think about for climate change focuses on uh reducing greenhouse gas emissions into the future, right? Which is a great thing. But in fact, the impact of climate change is already enormous. Uh rising temperatures, erratic rainfall, flooding, droughts, and as always, the burden falls on the most vulnerable and on those least able to cope with it. So what to do? What how do we address that? How what do we owe the people who are now suffering? And that's the focus of what we'll talk about at at Lunch and Learn, looking at some examples from countries, different ways they've dealt with this including a human rights perspective looking at the right to food. And also some really creative examples from Umcor on how you uh do relief, how you attend to people, to communities while at the same time, particularly for uh small farmers and livestock rearers in kind of marginal areas, and how do you uh reach them in a relief sense, while at the same time building greater resilience. So that's that's what the focus of the Lunch and Learn will be two weeks from today. Hope to see you. Thank you.

**Pastor Jackie:**
Great. Thank you, Dan. You can use that QR code right there on the screen to sign up or um write it on a connection card and bring it to me afterwards or just email me at jackie@firstchurchseattle.org. We are in Lent and we do have Lent and devotionals available for you. Once you exit the sanctuary after the worship service, they're on the table right out through those doors. Go ahead and pick one up. We also have a kids activity um during Lent. Called Coins for Lent, um that's put on by our uh United Methodist Discipleship Ministries. Um, there's calendars out there for kids or families or anyone really that wants to participate. It invites you to collect coins each day with a different little prompt. And then we'll collect all those together, bring them in on Easter and donate those to a uh nonprofit or a similar organization that the participants choose.

Pastor Kathy will be starting a new contemplative prayer gathering that will meet on Fridays at 1:00 p.m. on Zoom. The first gathering will be March 13th. Pastor Kathy is our pastor of congregational care and we're really uh looking forward to this new opportunity. It will be an open-ended exploration of prayer and contemplative spirituality as we consider how to draw closer to God and our neighbor through prayer. Come with an open heart. And you can sign up for that uh using that QR code there. Or similarly with the connection card. We have a couple upcoming music events. Open Mic Night and um Curtis Anderson concert. The first will be Curtis' concert. He's our base soloist over there in the choir raising his hand. Um on Sunday, March 8th, that's next Sunday at 3:00 p.m. here in the First Church Sanctuary. He'll present an afternoon music recital featuring Mushroom Songs, a humorous song cycle featuring poetry written by Maya Temenson. Our second music event is Open Mic Night on Friday, March 13th at 7:00 p.m. also here in the Sanctuary. Um and you can sign up to participate in that or just feel free to come and watch the wonderful um acts that will occur by congregants and many of our uh neighboring community members as well.

Next, I will invite Pastor Elizabeth to give an uh announcement about uh workshop taking place.

**Pastor Elizabeth:**
Well, first, I'm going to announce that I have signed up for the Open Mic Night and I'm going to be offended um if everyone else doesn't come. So, just go ahead and put that on your calendar. It's Friday the 13th, I know, but we can we can deal with that by coming and singing here. Um also just in um to continue following our call to be a fully inclusive community, something that I know is so important to the heart of First Church, um we know we still have more to learn. And so we've got uh a workshop coming up on the 21st, it's a Saturday from noon to 5:00 on intercultural competency. Just how we um notice each other's differences, how we celebrate those differences, and how we incorporate difference into our community to be fully inclusive. So, everybody's invited to be a part of that, encouraged to be a part of that. There's a sign up link in your E-News, um or you can do all the things that Jackie said to sign up, tell us, or write it down or whatever. I hope you'll come.

**Pastor Jackie:**
Thank you. We've got many, many more opportunities and we invite you to check out our E-News, you can get to it through the QR code there or the back of the bulletin. You can sign up to receive our weekly E-News. It comes out on Friday, uh evenings. Um and or just let me know if you have any questions. And we are uh reusing the prayer hymns that uh uh you found in your bulletin today. And so we have a spot on that table where the Lenten devotionals are available to turn those in so that we can reuse those. So, if you can remember to take that out as you exit the sanctuary today and place that on the table, that would be a huge help. And now, I invite you to rise in body or spirit so that we can join together in our closing hymn. It's number 363 in our red hymnal, and "Can it Be that I Should Gain?" This is a really old hymn. It was written by Charles Wesley, who is the brother of uh John Wesley, the founder of Methodism. He wrote many, many of our wonderful hymns. It was written in the year 1739. So, it may be unfamiliar to you. Some of the language may also be a little bit um uh different than what you're used to. There's some language of blood and death that we don't typically sing a lot about. But the reason we are singing it today is because it addresses that same question that Nicodemus asked in our scripture reading today. How can this be? The title of the hymn, of course, "And Can it Be." So, since this is unfamiliar for us, the choir will sing through the first verse, and then you will be invited to join in with the second verse.

### Closing Hymn: "And Can It Be that I Should Gain?" — UMH #363
**Sanctuary Choir:**
And can it be that I should gain
an int'rest in the Savior's blood?
Died he for me, who caused his pain?
For me, who him to death pursued?
Amazing love! how can it be,
that thou, my God, shouldst die for me?

**Congregation:**
'Tis mystery all, th' immortal dies,
who can explore this strange design?
In vain the firstborn seraph tries
to sound the depths of love divine.
'Tis mercy all, immense and free,
for O my God, it found out me.

He left his Father's throne above,
so free, so infinite his grace;
emptied himself of all but love,
and bled for Adam's helpless race.
'Tis mercy all, immense and free,
for O my God, it found out me.

Long my imprisoned spirit lay
fast bound in sin and nature's night;
thine eye diffused a quickening ray;
I woke, the dungeon flamed with light;
my chains fell off, my heart was free,
I rose, went forth, and followed thee.

No condemnation now I dread;
Jesus, and all in him, is mine;
alive in him, my living Head,
and clothed in righteousness divine.
Bold I approach th' eternal throne,
and claim the crown, through Christ my own.

**Pastor Elizabeth:**
May the peace that passes all understanding keep your hearts and minds in the knowledge and love of Jesus. And may the blessing of God who is Father, Son, and Holy Spirit go with you and remain with you always. Amen.

